Transcript for video 1/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GSkbbwEQg84
[Music]
welcome to our lead guitar beginners
level one course if you're a beginner I
love the idea of playing lead guitar
then this is the course for you just as
with all the other level one beginner
courses our first focus is to build the
key foundations that you can rapidly
build on as you progress
[Music]
we start from scratch with the key
techniques that will allow you to build
strength and accuracy with both hands
whilst learning cool exercises that will
help you monitor your progress and
increase your speed and strength very
quickly
[Music]
we then move on to learning your first
scales including the ultimate rock scale
and playing your first riffs and solos
we show you how to play a variety of
bends slides hammer-ons and pull-offs
and then how to apply them to your new
scale shapes so that you can play the
solos and even improvise your own
[Music]
by the end of the course you will
fundamentally understand how lead guitar
playing works as soon as you complete
this course you'll be ready for level
two
[Music]

Transcript for video 2/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6TVgmrq05_0
hi guys and welcome to the lead
beginners course now what we're going to
be doing in this course is getting you
to be able to play solos and riffs okay
so if you like that kind of style if you
like rock music blues music and these
are the kind of sounds that you're
aspiring to be able to play then this is
the course to get you started now not
only are we going to go through some
really cool solos and riffs but I'm also
going to teach you how you can play your
own solos how you can write and
improvise your own solos as well as your
own riffs so there's a lot of
information that we're going to be going
through but we're going to go step by
step really gradually and it's all going
to make a lot of sense now in this video
we're actually going to take you through
firstly a spider exercise now spider
exercises are all about developing
technique making sure that your hands in
the right place on the guitar and that
your right hand's doing the correct
thing once we've done that we're also
going to look at tab so just how to read
Tab and it's basic but it's something
that everyone needs to know how to do so
we're going to go through that as well
so we're going to start with this spider
exercise and to get us going we're going
to get a little drum beat on now this is
a demonstration so I'm going to start a
little quicker than we're going to do it
at 120 BPM so I'm going to use my lovely
little machine and press play and now
we've got it um so in this course you're
going to find we're going to be doing a
lot of stuff to drum beats and Loops
okay cuz it really helps um you kind of
develop your timing on the guitar and
also the kind of technique and
consistency of your playing so let me
first just take you through what this
spider exercise looks like here we go so
1 2 3
[Music]
4
right let's turn that drum beat off so
that's what the spider exercise it's by
no means a nice sounding exercise it's
just pure technique and you'll see a lot
of these style of exercises um and this
particular one is called 1 2 3 4 because
that's pretty much what we're doing with
our left hand so let's go through that
now so first things first when you're
sitting there with your guitar uh it's
really important to kind of get the
right hand position with your with your
fretting hand in this case my left hand
so the first thing I'm going to get you
to do is actually kind of put the thumb
right at the back of the neck you should
be able to see that that thumb if I just
pull this round here is right at the
back and you can see it's not this joint
it's not doing that so I'm flattening
the thumb joint to make sure it's nice
and flat and what that allows me to do
is actually stretch across the four
fingers across four Frets cuz what we
absolutely must have here is one finger
on each fret okay okay so at first you
know this is going to be really tricky
and and you know everyone has a problem
kind of stretching across here so it's
normally just the case of making sure
the thumb is far enough down the neck if
you so see here you can see my thumb's
poking up and they're all clumped
together and this is obviously no good
so I'm just going to kind of drag that
thumb back flatten it out and the more I
do that you can see the more my fingers
want to stretch out okay so here it is
over the neck and as I bring it back the
fingers kind of stretch out and that's
what you need to kind of grasp straight
away so that's your first task okay so
make sure you can do that now when
you've got that the idea here is that
you're going to try and keep the fingers
in that position okay so even when I go
and play my first note which is going to
be this first fret of the E string I'm
going to be going like this and you can
see my fingers are still kind of pretty
much hovering over the same Frets okay
so when I do my first line
it looks like they barely have to move
and this is really important something
you need to kind of consistently do so
let's give this a go so how we're going
to play it is we're going to start with
the first finger on the first fret of
the E string so this is the E string
okay along here and we're just going to
pluck that very nice then the second
finger on the second fret of the E
string so I'm just now pushing that one
down and playing that
one then the third finger on the third
fret okay and the fourth finger stretch
it right across to the fourth fret now
it is going to feel pretty strenuous
you're going to really feel it in your
wrist okay so don't worry about that
just we're not going to do this for too
long especially at the starting uh stage
um but we will be you know you will have
a little bit of tension in the wrist so
Al together that first line is just
simply 1 2 3 4 with the right hand okay
I want you to be picking down and up up
Strokes okay so if you're not sure how
to hold the pick there will have been a
video an early total beginnner basic
video as to how to hold the pick and
hold the guitar and things like that but
you should be holding it something like
this and we're just going to go down up
down up okay so that's called alternate
picking and we're going to be doing that
all the way through the course if you
want you can also use your little finger
just to put against the kind of body of
the guitar there just to hold you down
lots of people do that up down up okay
so have a little break from that just
get your wrist back in shape and then
we're going to pop it back on and
essentially the exercise then takes you
through each string so you do exactly
the same thing on each string okay so
I'm going to walk it through really slow
here so pay pay close attention here
guys so remember down up with the right
hand down up then we're going to move to
the second
uh string so this is the a string and
we're going to go 1 2 3 4 okay notice
how all my fingers are trying to get to
the edge of this fret this is really
important because this really helps make
the sound clear if it was right at the
start of the Fret like
that it's going to sound a bit Buzzy so
we've just done the second line one 2 3
4 we're going to go on to the D string
now so the third
string
still down up down up then the next
string then the next string so you get
the idea by now I'm sure then the next
string okay now then once you've kind of
done that and I would say you know
before you carry on just spend a little
bit of time making sure you can do that
pause the video have a go at it try and
go through all the way down and then
give your wrist a little bit of a break
but we're then going to go back we're
going to go back the other way okay okay
so we're going to go in reverse so now
we're right at the top here we're then
going to go 4
3 2 1 so 4 3 2 1 okay so that's going to
be a little bit of a you know it's going
to hurt your brain a little bit to start
with 4 3 2 1 now here's a cool thing
right we're going to go to the next
string but what I want you to do is keep
your first finger where it is because
this is going to help you kind of
continuously keep this hand position
otherwise you're going to end up
doing and doing a lot more work than
necessary so we get to the end of this E
string and then we just you can see how
I can see they're both kind of in the
same Frets the little finger is over
than the fourth the first is back here
and now we're going to go down the B
string same thing again stretch across
to the G
string same thing again stretch
across and same thing again
and
again until we're back at the
start okay so that's the exercise now
there's a lot going on here and to be
honest because this is the first time
you have done any kind of exercise like
this it's going to be it's going to be
hard work okay but the whole point is
that you're you're learning how to
stretch the hand put the the wrist in
the right position and use your right
hand so there's a hell of a lot to be
learned here so what we're going to do
is I'm now going to change my drum Tempo
to come right down to a beat called 80
BPM so a slower beat and I'll just do
that now and what that's going to mean
is we're going to try and actually play
along to this Tempo okay so I'm just
going to pop that
on now then this is what your practice
is going to be guys okay this to try and
get to play along with this now you got
the audio tracks and the tab to help you
out and it's going to look like this
ready I'm going to count you in if
you're ready just play along with me so
here we go 1 2 3 4
1 okay now if you're just listening this
is going to sound pretty slow but when
you start trying to do this if you've
never done anything like this before
this is going to be
[Music]
fast and straight away back
[Music]
down
[Music]
okay there it is so that's your first
exercise your spider exercise and I want
you to really spend some time on that I
would say at first just do it without
the drum beat and then when you feel
like you start to get it together a
little bit more put the drum bead on and
give it a try okay and we want to get it
up to 80 BPM that's going to be our
Target okay that's what we want to get
at now if you understand that we're just
going to quickly talk about tab okay so
I just want to draw you attention to a
tiny little bit of theory it's obviously
basic theory that we must have but what
you're going to see now on the screen is
a bar of tab so the the lines and now
what these lines are are the the actual
strings on the guitar okay so it
actually goes like in a kind of reverse
order to what you'd expect it actually
goes from low to high and what I'm mean
by that is the low string which is
the the low in sound string to the high
string high in sound okay so it's going
to kind of be a reflection of the guitar
you know it looks like a mirror image
more than anything um so we can just
clarify that by just going through the
strings okay so what you're going to
have is you're going to have the lowest
string which is the E then you're going
to have the
a then the D
string then the G string then the B and
then the
E so you can see every single line of
this tab kind of matches up to the
strings so those horizontal lines are
the strings okay now if you struggle to
remember that e a d g b e you can always
remember elephants and donkeys Grow Big
Ear okay I'm sure you can come up with
your own versions of these but I
particularly like that one one of my
students came up with that one don't
donys years ago uh yeah excuse the pun
there and it's stuck with me ever since
and I love it so elephants and donkeys
grow big ears just in case you can't
remember that so anyway we've got the
strings so we've now worked that out so
if we now have a little look at the tab
okay so what we're looking at now is the
first two bars of the one two three4
exercise okay and as you can see you can
you can obviously clearly see where the
you you've got the numbers going across
the strings okay so what this means if
we just Target the very first number so
it says one on the E string okay and
that's really simple that just means
it's the first fret of the E string so
you're going to put your first finger on
the first fret of the E string and then
pluck it and that's your first you know
note on this tab okay where it says two
that means you're going to put your
whatever finger it doesn't actually
specify what finger but we know that
we're going to use our second finger um
but on the second fret of the E string
that's the crucial part there and we're
going to pluck that and then the next
note says three so we go to the third
fret of the E string and the next note
is four so fourth note of the E string
fourth fret sorry so that whole first
line of tab in correlation with what
we're playing in the spider exercise
should look like this 1 2 3 4 okay now
that lovely kind of line that that
vertical line is called a bar line so
this this just helps us read the music
this says that okay those four notes
they're in one bar of four so we got
four notes per the bar and now we move
on to the next bar it just makes it a
little easier to read the music so now
we've got the one again but it's on the
second um horizontal line which means
the a string so we're going to put the
first finger first fret of the a string
and that's our next note then two is the
second fret three is the third fret
fourth is the fourth fret okay so all
together that that tab if we play along
with it is 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 of course let
me just clarify that the tab doesn't
give you specific rhythms that's one
thing you won't get from tab it just
gives you a rough idea like like that um
and secondly it it doesn't really give
you um anything to do with what fingers
should be used what kind of picking
pattern you should be doing that's all
something that we'll learn separately
you know as we go through things so the
tab is is considered more of a guide
really than than kind of normal sheet
music so there we have it guys with that
information you've got your spider
exercise and you've got your tab so now
you should be able to look at the tab
kind of actually read through the spider
exercise and play along so your first
task is to understand the tab play the
spider exercise and get it up to 80 BPM
and I'll see you next time for the next
[Music]
video
[Music]

Transcript for video 3/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IDlurmzKFnE
hey guys Dan here I just want to say a
massive congrats for starting this
course and getting all the way through
the first lesson remember go through
this course in your own time at your own
pace enjoy the lessons and make sure to
give yourself a little bit of extra time
and space to let all these new Concepts
sink in and get under your fingers now
before you dive head first into the
second lesson I just wanted to briefly
turn your attention to the YJ club which
you can now try for 14 days absolutely
free no matter your current level age or
ability in the YJ club we massively
upgrade your learning experience and
give you all the tools that you need to
properly learn the guitar the first
upgrade you'll notice is that all these
wonderful videos that you're watching
are Now supported with detailed
write-ups interactive tab backing tracks
and chord diagrams plus a lot more which
will instantly accelerate your learning
but that's just the start you'll also
get access to our learning pathway is
progress tracking a wonderful community
of students and mentors as well as
weekly webinars and the ability to post
a progress review to get direct feedback
from our top team of guitar tutors
suddenly all the fun comes flying back
into the learning process because you
can sit back and really enjoy the
knowledge that you've got everything you
need in one place under one yga shaped
roof so please do check out the YJ Club
via all the links below and get your 14
day free trial started now that's enough
for me enjoy the next lesson

Transcript for video 4/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=55kmPKkstPI
hi guys and welcome back to this second
lesson and today what we're going to do
is progress from what we did last time
so last time I taught you a spider
exercise uh which is really good for
technique and it's and it's absolutely
100% the thing you should be doing every
time you pick up a Guitar because it's a
great warmup but today we're going to
learn a G Major scale now the reason
I've chosen to start here is because I
just want to explain to you one why we
learn scales and the the concept of of
just kind of a basic scale and and how
to do it on the guitar and how how it
all works so the first thing I want to
do is just explain to you why we use
scales now you want to be able to
improvise you want to play solos you
want to be sounding like slash and
Clapton and jobon and mass and whoever
you like you want to be sounding like
that person now they use scales and the
reason for that is because it means they
can play in the right key so someone
might throw at them right I want to be
able to play in the key of
A and you know straight away as a lead
player you want to go okay what do I
know I know an a major scale right I can
play that over the top of this and it
will sound lovely so from a lead
person's perspective it's really simple
you just you play the right scale from
the key that you've been given okay so
it's easy really but you need to start
knowing the shapes and how to play them
okay so I'm just going to give you a
quick example of what that sounds like
soon as I've got this lovely setup I'm
just going to do a quick Loop of a G
major chord okay so for example uh
here's a G major chord so I'm going to
go 1 2 3
4
and by the power of magic that's now
looping for me um and I'm just going to
play a basic G Major scale and you're
going to see hopefully that it sounds
really pretty and it all fits and this
is the idea okay so this is kind of
based around the scale we're going to be
[Music]
[Music]
learning
[Music]
okay so I do get carried away sometimes
with these things but it sounds great
right and this is exactly why we're
going to learn the scale everything I
just played there yeah it was more
advanced than we're going to do now but
it was all just based around a G Major
scale so now let me show you the scale
that we're going to learn today it's the
G Major scale and it's this first
position and it looks like
this
[Music]
okay hopefully that sound is quite
familiar to you guys it's kind of
like I'm no singer obviously but that's
what it is um and that's all we need we
just need the first octave it's called
so the first seven notes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
that's a major scale and then after that
it gets back to the first note again and
if you carry it on you just repeat those
seven notes over and over again okay
that's all it is guys okay so what I'm
going to do is I'm going to walk you
through uh how to play this so what I
want you to do is get your finger on the
third fret of the E string okay so we
should all remember the E string the
elephant string elephant and donkeys
grow big ears right um and I'm going to
get you to play it with your second
finger this time okay and the reason for
that is because the shape kind of goes
backwards so we're going to need the
first finger back here remember the
importance of having one finger per fret
we talked about before so we're going to
play that SEC uh third fret of the E
string okay that's G now the little
finger is now going to play the fifth
fret okay which plays the a so we're
going to go third fret fifth fret okay
now in the in the next lesson or the one
coming up after that we're going to talk
about what these notes are all called
going up the neck but for now let's just
get the scale shape right so there to
there now this is where my first finger
is necessary cuz I'm going to go to the
A string now the second string and play
the second
fret okay that's my third note so I've
got 1 2 3 then I'm going to play my uh
second finger on the a
string okay 1 2 3 4 a fourth
note third fret then I'm going to go
fifth fret with my little
finger okay then I'm going to go up to
the D string play the second fret of the
D string with my first finger
then the fourth fret of the D string
with my third finger try and get the
exact fingers here and then little
finger right there on the fifth fret of
the D string okay so Al together real
slow we've got third fret on the E
string fifth fret on the E string then
we've
got second fret on the a string third
fret on the a string fifth fret on the a
string then we've got second fret on the
D string fourth fret and then fifth
fret so it sounds like
[Music]
this now the other thing I want you guys
to consider is with your right hand I
want down up Strokes okay so all turn
picking so down up down up down up down
up okay even when it means Crossing
strings we're going to do alternate
picking okay so just try and actually
literally say that to yourself down up
down up to force yourself to do that
picking pattern okay so there's your
scale shape okay and as always we want
to be practicing once you've got it kind
of basically together with that drum
beat that's so important to kind of get
your Rhythm through your lead playing as
well uh which is often kind of
misunderstood and underrated the fact
that you need to have rhythm in lead as
well um we're going to get the drums
going so I'm going to go to my trusty
drums machine and press play and we're
at 80 BPM again this is your target
again okay if you can go faster awesome
but it has to be accurate and it has to
sound good so here we go after four 1 2
3
[Music]
4 okay I'm going do it one more time 2 3
4
[Music]
okay that's what you're going to be
aiming to do let's stop that drum now
you've got the tab so we remember how to
read tab hopefully so you've got the tab
and you've got the audio to play along
to to try and get it up to that speed um
and that is going to be your task for
this lesson okay so now what you've got
in Your Arsenal you got your 1 2 3 4
exercise which you should be doing every
single time you pick up the guitar and
then secondly to that with the same drum
beat you're going to now try and play
your G Major scale okay remember it's
all for a good cause if you spend time
on it now it's going to really help you
be able to play all these cool solos
that we've got coming up so I'll see you
in the next
[Music]
[Music]
lesson

Transcript for video 5/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ewLBSBOryaM
hi guys and welcome back and today what
we're going to do is take a little Sid
track from the exercises that we've been
doing to talk about your right hand
technique now it's really important at
this stage that we don't start
developing bad habits with the right
hand because the right hand technique is
pretty crucial in terms of getting your
left and right hand matched up to
playing fluid you know sounding solos
and riffs okay so what we're going to do
is just talk about a couple of the
potential wrong ways that you could be
holding the plum and also talk about how
the p should be approaching the strings
okay at this stage so let's just start
with the the the two main I would say
wrong ways to hold the plum and if you
just look at this right hand shot what
we're going to do is this is this is how
I hold the plum and this is how I'm I'm
recommending that you hold the pleum and
you can see that basically if I just
remove the pick that it's this position
with the the thumb and the fingers so
I'm just kind of almost like trigger
finger Style holding my first finger
around like that so wrapping it around
what you do with the other fingers we'll
talk about in a minute and then the
thumb is just going to be ready to just
come down here and just grab the pleum
in between thumb and first finger and
we're going to be putting the pleum kind
of on this part okay of the finger okay
so all over this joint okay so here I go
plug it down there grab it with the
thumb and there we have it okay so you
can see it's that part that's holding it
together okay now then all I got to do
is just make sure that the point of the
tip is facing towards the STP
strings and basically that's it voila um
however the the often ways that we see
people get this wrong is one this is the
big one for me people holding it like
this okay so where we've got thumb and
two fingers on the pleum okay the two
fingers on the plum is really awkward to
be honest and even though some people
can get away with it long term you're
probably going to want to be using these
three fingers okay so I would definitely
avoid doing that I even avoid holding it
with just those two like that because
this is quite a common one really where
you get the thumb and the first finger
but they're flat so remember I had it so
that that first finger was wrapped
around like this if they're flat like
this again it's just it's not as much
control over the pick as when it's like
this okay so they're the two main
reasons the two main um kind of mistakes
to avoid at this stage so we hold it
like this we wrap it around like this
now when you do actually sit on the
string so when we're doing our 1 2 3 4
exercise for
example there's two things I want to
draw your attention to one is that you
should be with this little chunk of your
hand here on the on the strings or at
least on the bridge so the the kind of
the Silvery bits or the gold or whatever
yours look like at the back of the body
here you should be kind of pretty much
leaning on them with this chunk of your
hand not so much with this side of your
hand so I see a lot of people people
doing that when they first start out and
the the wrist should be leaned that way
instead of this way okay so basically
leaning towards your thumb that's the
first thing now later on down in the
course we're going to talk more about
that in more detail but that's something
to be aware of and secondly I like that
a lot of people use their little finger
or maybe even the the third and fourth
finger to just hold themselves onto the
body when they first start so let's say
I was running a 1 2 3 4 exercise
that's still absolutely
fine okay that's absolutely fine because
it's just holding you down because when
people first start there's a temptation
to kind of do
this and really big pleum strokes and
that's normally because it's coming from
the the whole arm movement rather than
what it should be which is a wrist
movement okay it should just be little
movements with the wrist so all you got
to really think guys is that you're
aiming to get it so that your pleum
Strokes are really small
okay so we're developing like a good
wrist action if you need to Pivot the
hand if you sorry if you need to hold
the little finger just to make sure that
you're secure then that's absolutely
fine a lot of great players do that um
but the main things is just that you're
holding the plum like this your thumb is
pointed towards the strings rather than
away from it like that and really that
you're holding the plum correctly so
that's it really guys so I just want you
to be at this stage just thinking about
the technique because now as the the
time where you develop the good habits
rather than the bad ones okay so if you
haven't been doing that go back to your
one two 3 4 exercise and your G Major
scale and just practice that technique
alongside those scales and and that
exercise and just to make sure that over
the next couple of weeks that really
starts to sink in it will take a couple
of weeks to sink in because it will feel
really awkward at first but really stick
with it and you will thank me in the
long term
[Music]

Transcript for video 6/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1OnVjn2-LGo
hi guys welcome back and today we're
going to be looking at the notes on the
neck now the first thing I want to
explain is why we're going to be
learning this now for a lead guitar
player the notes on the neck are going
to be really crucial for you okay and to
start with it's especially the notes on
the E and the a string so the first two
strings and this this comes down to
essentially the idea that when someone
throws you a key and they throw you um a
backing track which you want to
improvise over or play over you're going
to need to know what these notes are
called so you can find the right scale
or the right chord for example if we
were doing chords and that's why it's so
important so we're going to get this
knowledge transmitted to you now and
then you've kind of got it and you just
got to keep refreshing this and we're
going to do that kind of naturally as we
develop through this course so I'm going
to break this down relatively simple
okay so the first thing you need to
remember just generally is that there's
12 notes in music theory okay really
simple let's start from a cuz I sense
you got a a Shar b c c sh d d Shar e f f
uh f g gsh a almost got that wrong now
there are your 12 notes okay and it's
really simple you you'll notice on the
guitar that um you've got 12 Frets 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 before you hit
these double dots okay now the double
dots signify that you're 12 12 Frets
down and then it all starts over again
here okay so you go through all 12 notes
available in western music and then
afterwards you start them all over again
okay so that's the kind of Basics now
then there's two things to kind of Bear
in mind as we do this first of all you
need to know what the string is tuned to
because that's going to be a big part of
this okay so in this instance the string
is tuned to
e okay we know that because we know
elephants and donkeys big is so e okay
and a the are the two strings we're
going to be doing E and A String now
because we know that this is tuned to e
let's do e all we've got to do is take
that sequence of notes a a Shar b c c
Shar and just go up but starting from E
okay so that brings me on to my next
point that is really important to
understand every single note has a sharp
apart from two notes okay and those two
notes are B and E so what I want you
guys to remember is quite simply a b so
like a a buzzing B okay so um obviously
that's spelled be e e uh but B and E and
that's how we remember that they are the
two notes that do not have Sharps okay
um B and E do not have Sharps I will say
it one more time so when we get to those
notes the next note will just be the
next note up in the alphabet okay um
otherwise it will be a sharp let me just
demonstrate okay just just in case
you're totally lost let's start here so
we've got e open string okay now I'm
going to go out one fret now we've just
talked about the fact that b and e do
not have Sharps so I don't go to e sharp
that doesn't exist okay I just go to F
cuz it's the next one up in the alphabet
A B C D E F okay when I got one more
this is going to be F sharp because F
does have a sharp okay I'm going to go
out one more so I'm now to the next
letter of the alphabet I'm on G
okay then G sharp now when you get to G
sharp you do not go to the next letter
you don't go to H okay that that's not
here um what is going to be here is a
okay so after G Shar you kind of just go
back start from the beginning of the
alphabet okay so G sharp a okay that's
just something you need to remember now
then after that you've got a sharp then
you've got B now we just talked about
this B and E do not have sharp so after
B you go straight to C okay then C sharp
then D then D sharp then e and you can
see on that 12th fret where we've got to
now we've started and ended on
E okay so after that it all just starts
again e to F because there's no e Shar f
g g Shar a and so on okay so really if
you can just remember the basic theory
that b and e do not have Sharps then you
can pretty much work this out on on any
string okay let's take the a string okay
so
a the next not up from a is going to be
a sharp then B it's got no sharp so
straight to C C Shar d d Shar e e's got
no sharp so we're going to get f f f sh
g g Shar a and we start and end on a
okay so if you get all the way up to the
12th fret and you're on a G sharp you've
gone wrong somewhere okay cuz we know
that that to the 12 threat should be
exactly the same note just an octave
higher okay so 12 notes higher now
that's it okay it it doesn't get more
simple than that so the main things to
remember are just everything's got sharp
apart from B and E okay and that we're
going to be relating that to the E
string and the a string okay now the
other thing is that if you come back
down the neck okay and this is just just
we're just going to do this for now to
keep it simple okay but if you come in
Reverse instead of saying sharp you're
going to say flat think of it as like a
flat tire it's going down so down the
neck in
sound okay so this is up the neck in
sound and down the neck in sound okay so
let's just come to this e at the top
here when we go back here this would be
D sharp okay that's what we'd have said
if we were going up the neck in sound
but because we're coming back down it
makes sense to rather than say D sharp
we say E
flat okay it's exactly the same note
don't even worry about it for the moment
okay it's crazy I know it's the same
note but we call it flat and as we get
more advanced we're going to start to
understand more about why we do that but
for the moment if you're coming down the
neck like that we're just going to think
of it as flap so e e flat d d is the
same doesn't matter you know you can't
you can't change that cuz that's just d
when we go back down one d d flat Okay C
all right so it it's like that remember
the same thing still applies to that e
and the B because they don't have Sharps
it means that when you get to that note
so there's the C you're not going to go
C flat okay that doesn't exist just like
B Sharp doesn't exist C flat it's B
these two notes Here b c b c Okay so you
know you use the kind of diagrams as
well to make sure that this is really
sinking in but let's just go down that
so e e flat d d flat c b same B flat a a
flat g g flat F and because there's no e
sharp it means there's no F flat so we
do
e okay so with the sharps I I think it's
it's important that that's your first
kind of main thing that you remember you
just remember how to do it up in shars
because certainly initially we're going
to come across a lot more Sharps than we
are flats okay but they will pop up so
that's why I want you to know it I need
you to remember it just in the
peripherals so it's there somewhere um
but just try that okay and as an
exercise for you guys in terms of apart
from just trying to remember that which
is obviously crucial you need to
remember that um I want you to try and
just remember certain notes on the E and
the a string okay this is going to be
really important because obviously let's
say I wanted to get to
B at the opening stages so when you
first start learning you're going to
have to go e f f sh G gar a a Shar B to
get to B and that's fine that's
absolutely fine I'd much rather you did
that than guess where B is okay but
gradually you want to just be able to go
B is there a is there G is there and so
on okay this is going to be really
important for kind of how quickly you
can kind of pick up a solo and start
playing and stuff like that okay so you
can just use the dots these are why
these lovely white beautiful dots are
here on the guitar to help you kind of
memorize it like a map so here's your
first task Okay the third fret so this
dot here the fifth fret and the seventh
fret these dots we're going to remember
them on the E and the a string so G this
is g e e f f sh G so on the E string the
first dot is G the second dot is a and
the third dot is B so we can remember g
a b
gab if you want to g a b okay play that
back as many times as you want until
you've remembered that then on the a
string the third fret is C CU we go a a
sharp b
c the fifth fret is d
and the seventh fret is e so we've got c
d e okay so this is your first task wrap
your noodle around this g a b c d
e that's going to really help you
hopefully to remember those dots okay so
first things first you know get familiar
with the fact that the sharps are where
they are and the b and e that don't have
Sharps and equally reverse in flat and
then just try and actually just learn
these notes now don't worry you don't
have to go away and spend hours and
hours before you come back to the next
video learning that you just need to
understand what I'm saying to you and
just practice that one bit with the dots
okay because that's the bit that's going
to be immediately applicable okay so
have some fun with that next time we're
going to do a bit more playing so uh not
as much Theory um and we're really going
to unlock a really important piece of
knowledge on the
[Music]
guitar
[Music]

Transcript for video 7/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUAh2NrH674
hi guys and welcome back and what we're
going to do now today is a really
exciting lesson I think um for beginners
because this is really going to unlock a
whole new level of understanding of of
how all of these amazing players that
you're watching and going what the hell
are they doing um how they do it really
and it's a really simple concept it's
the idea of moving shapes and it's
something pretty unique to the guitar
you know you couldn't do this on a piano
for example um which is why probably the
guitar is so popular and why so many
people pick it up now then here's the
thing we're going to take the G Major
scale that we've learned already so I'm
just going to recap that for you it
should look like
[Music]
this now I'm hoping that your right hand
is getting a bit more comfortable with
the picking I'm hoping that your your
thumb is nice and at the back of the
neck as it should be um and that you're
getting a bit more comfortable just with
this uh left hand movement so there's
your G Major scale now
what we're going to talk about is how to
move that so the reason this is G major
for the purpose of of this video is that
you have a shape which hits the these
seven particular notes that make up G
major okay now the great thing about
learning a shape like this is that you
can just move that shape to a different
place and you'll be playing the same
scale so major scale but from a
different root note so your root note in
this case is G
which is good um hence G Major scale
this shape is Major so wherever I move
that shape anywhere on the guitar neck
as long as we start from the E string
it's going to be a major scale okay
however the dot that we're on so the
actual fret the um the note that we're
on we should say so the Fret or the note
is going to determine what this major
scale is called so let's say for example
we wanted now to play an A major scale
well all I got to do is use the
knowledge we learned last time so
where's a on the E string I'm going to
give you a second have a little think
about it so where's a on the E string
can we find it here's how we would we'd
go well this is e f f Shar g g Shar a so
there we are hopefully we got the same
answers um if not just make sure that
you know how to count up that again
Watch the last video again if you need
to and we're going to take exactly the
same shape but now start it from a so it
looks like this
[Music]
same shape right so we're using second
finger fourth finger first second fourth
first third fourth fingers and that's
exactly the same shape as where we had
it originally but we're on different
Frets
now you can hear it it sounds like the
same scale right it's a major scale um
but we've been smart about it now and we
put it up to a and what that means is
that we're now playing an a major scale
okay I mean we'll try another one right
so let's say someone says to you right
I'm playing the key of B
major can you first thing I'm going to
be thinking is right okay I'm probably
going to need a B major scale to
improvise over that so I'm going to find
B on the E string so e f f sh g g Shar a
a SHP B take my scale
shape and there we we
have the B major scale okay so this is
really important stuff you know the what
you've got to get your head around here
is that they all sound like major scales
okay so you know all these I mean you
you probably will kind of be into or
like kind of bluesy Rocky kind of solos
let's just pick a few players Clapton
Gilmore hris these kind of guys now when
you hear them play loads of different
songs you probably think I've heard that
guitar bit before I've heard that sound
before but they're all in different Keys
you know they're they're all in
different they sound slightly different
and that's going to be because they've
done the same thing so the same lick
let's call it so a lick is just a
repetitive part or or a sound that you
like um but in a different key so I
could play in G major I could play
[Music]
this and then for the next song I could
I could say oh I like that lick I'm
going to play again but this next song's
in
B is exactly the same thing isn't isn't
it but it sounds different now cuz I'm
in a different key so hopefully that
makes sense now let me just help you
forward one further by actually putting
a back into this so I'm going to put a
real life example here and I'm going to
say right someone wants me to play in
the key of B let's call it B major and
they've given me this track so I'm just
going to really quickly record a quick
loop with a B Maj now don't worry about
the chord shape but uh it's good to see
anyway so I'm going to go 1 2 3 4
[Music]
and there's our Loop okay now this is a
song that someone's given me or my band
is playing in the key of B major now I
don't know many scales but I know a B
major scale because we've learned it so
I find
B there it is and now I'm going to go
crazy I'm going to turn a bit of
distortion on why not and we're going to
play over this with my B major scale
here we go 1 2 3
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
4 does it sound good to
you and
[Music]
then let's clean that up a
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
bit okay so hopefully that makes some
kind of sense to you but um what it what
it means is that you know someone's
giving me this key and I've just taken
my scale I'm getting a bit creative with
it admittedly and please give it a try
why not try it yourself there's going to
be backing tracks provided so that you
can try exactly this concept for the
purpose of the video we'll do one more
okay let's pick a key I'm going to pick
something a little different this time
I'm going to pick G sharp someone's giv
me the key of G sharp okay so first of
all I'm going to get rid of that backing
track and do another one okay so this
backing track is going to sound like
this 1 2 3
[Music]
4 a bit of a reg thing something like
that now G sharp okay so e f F Shar G G
sharp I take my major scale shape and
off we go here we go so 1 2 3
[Music]
4 and there we go so now all the fancy
little bits the hammer on the bends the
slides uh the speed we're going to get
to that the main thing from this video
is that you understand this concept of
moving shapes you can now play in any
key with that understanding you can play
in any key and it's never it's never
really going to get any harder than that
not for a long time anyway what you're
going to add to this is that you're
going to learn more scales you're going
to learn more shapes and the more and
more you learn the more you can do you
can see we're a little Limited in terms
of improvising there cuz we've only got
one shape but that's fine if you can
make that sound good you can make
anything sound good so there there we go
guys there's your first kind of really
step into the Big Wide World of lead
playing and next time we're going to
take things a little further with the
pentatonic Scout
[Music]

Transcript for video 8/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0XL0iWLS4Hs
hey guys Dan here and well done you
completed the first unit and I want you
to know this is a really big deal you
are one of now about 15 of students that
start these courses here on YouTube and
actually get through to finishing the
first unit so before you do anything
else I just want you to sit there give
yourself a big pat on the back for doing
the work it's genuinely amazing now
getting this far also tells me that
you're really serious about your
learning and therefore I want to make
sure that you're giving yourself the
best chance of success so before you
jump head first into the next unit I
just wanted to remind you here about our
YJ Club as you can still try it for 14
days absolutely free no matter your
current level age or ability in the YJ
club we massively upgrade your learning
experience and give you all the tools
that you need to properly learn the
guitar the first upgrade you'll notice
is that all these wonderful videos that
you're watching are Now supported with
detailed write-ups interactive tab
backing tracks and chord diagrams plus a
lot more which will instantly accelerate
your learning but that's just the start
you'll also get access to our learning
pathway is progress tracking a wonderful
community of students and mentors as
well as weekly webinars and the ability
to post a progress review to get direct
feedback from our top team of guitar
tutors suddenly all the fun comes flying
back into the learning process because
you can sit back and really enjoy the
knowledge that you've got everything you
need in one place under one yga shaped
roof so please do check out the YJ Club
via all the links below and get your 14
day free trial started now that's enough
for me enjoy the next lesson

Transcript for video 9/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LvIPvbpyfRc
hi guys welcome back and today what
we're going to be looking at is the a
minor pentatonic scale so this is your
first chance to start learning the
pentatonic scale and it's a big scale
this scale is where all those amazing
solos and riffs come from and to be
honest for a lot of guitar players all
they ever need is this one shape moved
up and down the neck and they're away
they create entire careers from this
scale so what I'm going to do first just
for a bit of fun is just show you some
of the some of the songs that have been
built and written using this scale so
see if you can recognize them here's the
first
[Music]
[Music]
one right how about something a bit more
[Music]
rock all right what about this
[Music]
and not to mention the general
soloing that can be done with these
wonderful scales so there you have it
couple of songs there now of course it's
going to take a little bit of time to
get to those kind of stages but it's
just good to know what you're aiming for
isn't it you you spend the time now
learning these scales and spending the
time with the drum machine like we're
going to do in a minute and all of that
is going to lead up up to be able to
play songs like that so let's get down
to it I'm going to show you the scale
first I'm just going to quickly run
through it and then we're going to break
it down and go through it with the B so
the scale looks like
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
this okay so the a minor Pence tonic now
let me just take you through it note by
note so first things first if we learned
anything from the last couple of lessons
hopefully is that we need the correct
hand position now you'll see a lot of
guys play with the thumb over the neck
and that's something that will gradually
happen for itself and we'll talk about
that when we get to it for now we want
to learn the correct position so again
thumb at the back of the neck exactly
how we did it with the 1 2 3 4 exercise
and the G Major scale and everything one
finger per fret okay so that's the other
big thing that we need to do and finally
alterate picking with the right hand
okay so let's take you through it so
we're going to come to the fifth fret
now hopefully if you've been studying
the notes on the neck like I asked you
should know this is the e f f sh g g
Shar a this is the a okay so we're
starting on a which is the fifth fret of
the E string so we're going to play that
as a downstroke then we're going to move
the little finger across to the eighth
fret which is a C note and play that
with an upstroke
now really crucially remember we're
using the little finger and the first
finger doesn't need to go anywhere at
all okay you often find that with total
beginner students you'll get this kind
of seesaw effect so you'll put that one
down and then when you go to play this
one the first thinging it comes way up
like that and then back so you end up
doing
[Music]
this which is not helping anything
really it's just something that you know
is people just don't realize they don't
need to do it so of course this first
finger could stay exactly where it is
when this one goes down because this
one's in front of it so you won't hear
this one I mean it seems obvious but you
know some people forget that so look at
these fingers and try and keep them on
the board like I'm doing so
first fourth like that okay then we're
going to move down to the fifth fret of
the a string so this is a d note okay
then seventh fret with the third finger
and again look that first finger stays
exactly where it is okay
then we're going to repeat that same
thing on the D string fifth fret seventh
fret same on the G fifth fret seventh
fret then on the B string we're going to
do fifth fret eighth fret so the little
finger comes across again exactly the
same notice if you look at the back of
the neck my thumb is still nice and
secure it's not like this it's not like
this it's nice and flat at the back of
the neck still to make sure I get the
stretch then fifth fret on the E string
and eighth fret on the the E string okay
so I'll just go through that nice and
slow so we're going to start on the
fifth fret E string then little finger
to the eighth fret then fifth seventh
then on the D string fifth seventh then
g string fifth seventh fifth eighth
fifth fret eighth fret okay now we're
going to do the same thing then in
Reverse so we're going to come back down
the guitar or up the guitar whichever
way you want to think of it so we're
going to go eth five 8 five now remember
on the way back of course you know you
have to release the finger you can't
keep this one on to play that one
hopefully that makes sense so but what
you can do is definitely keep the
fingers nice and close to the fretboard
okay you can see that they're not going
miles away every time I take them off we
want to keep them nice and close eth
fifth then seventh on the G string fifth
seventh fifth we're just creeping back
up the scale
shape until we get to the start okay so
let's run through that all the way
through goes like
this remember your alterate picking guys
so down up down up down up down up and
again down up so we do that top note
[Applause]
twice nice and slow
and there we are so first job is to just
learn the scale shape it shouldn't take
too long this is a very common shape and
it's actually nice and easy to remember
I think so um just first job is to learn
the shape and make sure you're doing
alternate picking you got all the
fingers in the right place and it's
remembered okay now what your target is
going to be pretty much by the time you
take on the next lesson so spend the
next you know day also practicing this
is we're going to try and get it along
to the drum beat at 80 BPM so that's
your target speed just like with the 1
two 3 fours and the G Major scale 80 BPM
is our Target so we're going to try and
play that now if you think you're ready
then play along give it a try why not um
but gradually build up to this so I'm
going to go to my trusty drum machine
and put it on at 80
BPM there we go and now what we're going
to do is play along to that okay so I'm
going to count us in and we're going to
give it a try here we go so after four 1
2 3 4
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
we're going to go again okay when we get
down start again off we go when you get
this drum beat on and you play along to
stuff like this just keep
[Applause]
[Music]
going if you miss one so I'm I'm going
to on the next round I'm going to
pretend to get it
wrong and I'll show you what to do so
let's say I miss
one let's just carry on okay don't go
off the beat if you miss one don't do
this so I'm going to miss
one don't try and catch up with the beat
okay just it's missed it's gone leave it
okay turn this off for a second if you
miss it it's gone leave it alone just
get on with the next beat okay that's
what happens for real world guitarists
you know every now and again they're
going to miss a note they just it's just
gone leave it alone play the next note
okay so that's something to try and
remember so there's your first task guys
your a minor pentatonic up and down to
80 BPM and I'll see you for the next
lesson
[Music]

Transcript for video 10/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4UyL1sRIlA
hi guys welcome back and I hope that you
have been practicing your a minor
pentatonic just like
this up and down and obviously against
the uh the drum beat which is up to 80
BPM remember that's the target speed
that we're trying to get to now if
you've gone further than that then
that's brilliant but don't try and kind
of run before you can walk don't don't
don't try and go up in speed too quickly
because remember it's it's absolutely
crucial that it's nice and even across
the beats
and it's accurate as well you know if
you try and go too quickly too fast it's
going to kind of fall apart and you're
going to get a syndrome where syndrome
is a bit harsh but you're going to get a
situation where you've got your right
hand moving a little faster than your
left or vice versa and it's all going to
sound a bit messy so with that advice
remember that um what we're going to do
today is just very quickly talk about
keys because this is going to be a big
part of everything we do from now on and
we've touched on it already but I just
wanted at this point describe what keys
are and what keys mean for lead players
and of course I'm not talking about your
car keys this is musical Keys okay so
this is the concept that maybe you might
have come across um talking to musicians
or being a blues jam or maybe singers on
TV talking about whatever it is but
they'll talk about playing or singing in
a certain key now a key is really just
the tonal Center that's probably the
best way to describe it so if someone
says that I'm playing in the key of A a
minor then that a minor chord or that a
note is the center of the rest of the
music so what that's going to mean is
that every time you come back to that a
the music is going to sound kind of
resolved it's going to sound like you've
done a whole load of stuff and you've
come back to the start again just
imagine it like a lap on a on a course
um so that's really without getting too
Technical and if you want more
information on this there's a theory
section which you can dive you know head
first into but without getting too
technical that's what a key means now
from our point of view as lead guitar
players with our new pentatonic scale on
our G Major scale um or just I should
say major scale um what we're going to
need the information we're going to need
is what key is it and then we match that
up to the scale as simple as that for
now let's leave it at that so for
example um you know this blues jam might
be happening and it might be going down
like this
[Music]
something awesome like that and you know
you're getting up there and you got to
do some improvising and the guy says
what key is it in and it's in a so you
go okay a is good and then hopefully a
little bit more specific they might say
it's in the key of A minor or a major
now then here is at this point that's
great information for us cuz let's say
they say it's in the key of A minor well
we know an A minor pentatonic don't we
and that's all we need to know we just
match it up to that so we go okay I know
my a minor
pentatonic I'm going to play that right
simple and that's going to fit you know
as long as you're in the right key it's
all going to fit everything you play in
any
order is going to fit in that key okay
and that's what's so good about these
scales now they might say that it's in
the key of a major well we don't know an
a major pentaton yet we will do but we
know an a major scale right so we just
come back to the information we learned
before find the A and play the a major
[Music]
scale and we're playing in the key of a
major and it will fit over the what all
the other musicians are playing because
they're also playing in the same key so
it's it's the key is crucial for for
musicians jamming together for writing
songs for being able to work with other
musicians this is absolutely crucial
stuff and as you go through this course
you're going to learn more and more
scales and and where to put them to make
them in different Keys okay so hopefully
that makes sense in terms of what a key
is now in the next lesson what we're
going to be looking at is taking the
minor pentatonic and moving it into any
key we want
[Music]

Transcript for video 11/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N5hs8lrIW8c
hi there guys welcome back and first let
me say that I hope I didn't blow your
mind with the keys talk that we in the
last video it should be relatively
simple um remember that the main thing
for us is the application of it not that
you understand the theory on a on a very
deep level it's more that you can for
now just apply it and make sense of that
aspect okay so for example coming back
to our talk about when if someone gives
you a key and we talked about a minor
and we had our a minor pentatonic okay
now let's just take that one step
further in this lesson and talk about
the fact that what if someone throws F
Shar minor B minor C minor any of these
but you still want to use your
pentatonic shape well it's easy it's
exactly the same Principle as with the G
Major scale that we learned moving the
shape okay so the shape this shape is a
minor pentatonic that's a minor
pentatonic shape okay and it depends
where we put that first note as to what
minor pentatonic it is so so if we want
G minor pentatonic we're going to put it
on
G and Play The Shape from there so I'll
go through it nice and slow you can see
now this is same shape hopefully you
know you can see the shape still but
we're on different Frets now because
we're down starting from
G yeah okay so this this concept
obviously relies on you knowing the
notes on the neck and specifically on
the E string okay this shape is based on
the E string nowhere else just the E
string for the root note okay so let's
try one and we'll go through the process
of finding the right note on the neck
I'll let you try first and then putting
the pentatonic in the right place and
then playing through the pentatonic at
80 BPM okay so we're doing the whole
thing everything coming together now so
I'm going to say right we're jamming
away and my jam is in B
minor this Jam um unnamed Jam is in the
key of B minor okay so what do we do
first we need to find B so here we go
you need to do this with me e open
string f f Shar G G sharp a a Shar B of
course you definitely knew that I know
you knew that um now we're here so we
need to now make this a minor pentatonic
so we remember the shape we remember the
kind of fingers we're using and we go
through it so I'm going to do once and
then we'll try it to the bat so B then
remember little finger same kind of
amount of Frets in between so this is
fourth Frets in relation to this first
finger
okay we can see that's the same shape
exactly the same shape on the guitar we
see things as shapes a lot of the
[Music]
time okay so let's put our 80 BPM drum
beat on here we go my wonderful device
and we're going to play along to this
okay now in the key of B minor amazing 1
2 3
[Music]
4 remember your alternate
[Applause]
picking keep those fingers close to the
fretboard
okay excellent
now when you do that at home you need to
do that over and over again of course
something that you might find quite
surprising is as you get higher and
lower up the fretboard the scale is
going to get trickier the reason we
start in a minor is cuz it's nice and in
the middle the Frets are a nice spacing
you're in the middle of the Fret board
so it's kind of a nice place to start um
but as you if you went back to F Miner
for example suddenly you've got a much
wider stretch on your hands and if you
went all the way up here it all gets
very tight so we're going to try all of
them okay but let's just pretend we've
got another ke thrown at us now and this
key is the key of fshp
minor okay no problem it's funny with a
lot of my old students I used to get
really scared as soon as you said a
sharp or a flat but of course it makes
no difference at all absolutely none so
let's just find f e f f sh okay so now
we put our pentatonic on it
okay do you see that hopefully your VIs
visualizing this at the same
[Music]
[Applause]
time okay let's hit the beat there we go
so after four 1 2 FSH
[Music]
minor bit more of a stretch on this one
right
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
okay
good so that's the idea okay and you can
test yourself all day long so just maybe
you want to go back to the lesson where
we talked about the notes on the neck
and just pick one so you could try for
example dsharp or E flat because it's
the same note remember and you just find
your way up to it so let's do dsh as an
example e f f g gsh a a sh b c c sh d
dsh
now gradually of course you shouldn't
need to do that all the way up the neck
you should know these dots yeah and find
your way up here but there's your D Shar
drum beat comes on and off we go D Shar
minor
[Music]
pentatonic and back
down and of course everywhere you go the
positioning is going to be a little
different it's going to be possibly
harder some in some places easier and
you just find your way through it okay
so there it is guys that's what you need
to be practicing you need to be chucking
any kit yourself and just trying to play
the minor pentatonic at 80 BPM and next
time we're going to talk about major
pentatonic
[Music]

Transcript for video 12/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TBFQlDHnxo8
hi guys welcome back and today what
we're going to be looking at is the
major pentatonic so I'm not going to
throw any new scales at you deliberately
what we're going to do is be quite smart
about it and take the scale we already
know the pentatonic shape but just
change one teeny little detail and
suddenly you'll be able to make a major
pentatonic rather than minor okay and
it's really simple but it can take a bit
of time just to get your head around it
so I'm going to do it as as slowly as I
can just to make sure that you really
get it um so let's just take the example
that we want an a major pentonic so at
the moment we've really been focusing on
that a
minor pentatonic shape now I want to
keep this shape this shape is perfect
this is the one we're going to be using
still but we're going to be changing it
to Major now and the way we do it is
instead of using the first finger on the
a we're going to put your little finger
on the a okay just bear with me here go
with me I know it's crazy but by putting
the little finger on the a we kind of
reposition our fingers back over here
okay and if you imagine that this is the
second note now in that pentatonic shape
so normally we'd go first note second
note this little finger here right now I
want you to imagine that you've just
done that note but it's on a instead and
that's your root note so a is still the
root note but with your little finger
okay and then you just continue going up
the shape as normal after that that but
of course we're back here so you're kind
of imagining that you started on
F as if it was an F
minor and then this is your kind of
second note but of course this is the
first note okay and this this is the
kind of slightly tricky thing to get
your head round but when you put it into
practice it's it's very simple
so we then continue as if we were kind
of going through the F minor pentatonic
so I've got second fret fourth second
fourth second fourth second fifth second
fifth and then back in the other
direction but the crucial
thing is that we end on the a okay not
that F sharp now the reason for this is
that that part of the pentatonic is your
minor root note okay so if you're in any
minor keys at any point that's your
minor root note this part of the shape
is your major root note okay and I know
that sounds really weird but you'll see
when I actually put a a sound on now in
major that it makes sense okay but this
is your major root note so if I'm
playing an a major I start and end on
the a obviously that has to
happen but I still play through the rest
of the
[Music]
scale okay you can hear it resolves okay
so let's just put that into some kind of
perspective for you what I'm going to do
is I'm just going to quickly go to my
looping station my magical looping
station and I'm going to play just an a
major just um something nice and simple
so like this 1 2 3
4 and there we have a loop of a major
really simple okay now I'm going to come
back to my a root note so you can hear
immediately this is good this is a
resolve if I started from the minor root
note so the F sharp in this
case it's not quite happening is it so
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you can hear it all fits right if we
play around a little bit with
[Music]
that okay so it all fits it all makes
sense when you hear it it's just going
to your kind of head around that very
first bit okay so we'll take another
example just to make sure you really
understand this so let's take a sharp
major pentatonic why not why the hell
not so first of all we've got to find
the a sharp so we're going to do this
again e f FSH g gsh a a
Shar there we have it and if I was doing
a Shar minor I'd get there with my first
finger I'd keep my first finger there
and I'd
[Music]
do and we'd be playing in a minor but I
want to do AAR major so I'm going to
change that first finger for little
finger okay and imagine now that we're
going to obviously we're kind of going
backwards is the way you would kind of
think about it and imagine that we've
missed the first note of the pentatonic
which in this case would have been G so
we got that stretch missed that
entirely but then we still carry on it's
kind of like you're playing in G
minor because obviously if I went down
to here it would be G but I need to
think of it as a Shar major because
that's my resolve that's my tonal Center
as we talked about in one of the videos
that's my root note so I'm going to do
same thing with my Looper except now I'm
going to do an a Shar major progression
okay so something really simple don't
worry too much about this for now one 2
3 4 1 2 3 4
[Music]
okay later on down the course I'm going
to teach you how to do that okay which
is which is really cool but for
now I'm now going to play a Shar major
pentatonic so there's the AAR I'm on my
little finger to start with and I'm
going to go here we go 2 3
[Music]
4 okay so there we have it so I've I've
I managed to put myself in the right key
using a very simple trick it's just put
your little finger where your first
finger would be okay so your task for
this lesson is to try that okay go away
and just just have a little play around
just pick out to do the a major and the
a Shar major that I did and then pick
out anything else you can think of C
major B major E major whatever and apply
the same principle and see how you get
on and next time what we're going to do
is bring it all together everything
we've learned so far and apply it by
kind of testing you on this
[Music]
[Music]

Transcript for video 13/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iFzJQVgm3PM
hi guys welcome back and what we're
going to do now is bring everything
together that we've learned so far and
try a little bit of improvising okay so
this is something that again I've been
touching on as we've gone through but I
just want to talk to you and and just
encourage you really to just make some
stuff up okay so the power of everything
that we're learning when we're learning
how to play scales in Keys is that you
can straight away make nice Melodies
make little solos uh make little riffs
it just all comes down to just
creativity just like trying it and
believe me no one is good at this very
at the first time you know like you you
look at me play through this but this is
years and years and years of practicing
and getting to grips with this idea um
and it makes it look easy because of
that but everyone you know when I sit
here with a student oneto one face to
face it takes a couple of weeks until
they really start to just open up
creative creatively um and that really
helps everything else going forward so
we're going to get a start now okay so
this is a little bit of a test as well
because I'm going to be kind of throwing
you a key and then I want you to find
the right pentatonic to play over that
key I'll put a little Loop down using my
lovely pedals and looping station things
and then we'll play and improvise over
it okay at the very least you should
just be practicing the scale going up
and down okay but we're going to try and
improvise a bit so let's start with the
first key and we're going to kick off
with a minor okay so I just wanted to
start easy cuz we should know this so
first of all we're going to find the
right scale right so let's just go up
our notes on the E string e f f sh g g
sh a okay now we're here we should know
that we can take the scale
shape like that and we've got a minor so
no matter the chord progression that I'm
about to lay down for you guys this will
all
work okay now let's just start by kind
of laying down a nice simple progression
to play over okay so do this really
quickly one 1 2 3
[Music]
4 okay very cool remember that for you
guys there's backing tracks there's
specific backing tracks in these Keys
available to practice this over so you
don't need any of this looping stuff
it's just great for now so improvising
first of all we'll just make sure the
scale fits that's a good start
it certainly
does you can hear every note sounds
really
good when I mean improvising it's just
kind of breaking the habit of just going
up and down to start with certainly so
let's just start at a point randomly
within the scale how about here
so so in terms of you know note choice I
don't really know what I'm going to do
I'm just picking any of the notes within
this they're all going to sound
good and you can hear also rhythmically
I'm trying to change it up a bit so I'm
not just
going
or you know these are massive jumps
probably not what you're looking for
you're not looking for massive
[Music]
jumps but what you are looking for is
different rhythms so
notice I'm holding that note really long
because I kind of like it it sounds
[Music]
good this is improvising guys let me
turn that off for a second it's nothing
like special but it's a Melody you know
this is this is the absolute base of
everything so what I need you to try and
do is just put that a miner back in
track that we've provided you one and
just try and play along or just play
along with me in the video whichever you
prefer and just try and come up with
stuff like that it it can't be bad it
can't be wrong unless you play notes
outside of the scale that's the only
time you get it wrong but apart from
that as long as you're within the scale
it's all going to sound fine okay so
that's a minor let's now push it a
little bit harder and do another minor
key but this time we'll do B minor okay
so let's go through this process e f f g
g sh a a sh B I'm hoping you can find it
just as quick as that if not quicker um
and because it's minor we're going to
start with our first finger and play
through there we have it so again you've
got a B minor backing track to play
along to okay and try and do some
improvising I'll give you a kind of 30
second example uh let's just do a quick
new Loop so one 2 3 4
one two going to L that
round B minor right I'll tell you what
guys as well if you've got you know a
cool amp or a couple of pedals or
whatever chop the distortional why not
have a little bit of fun with
it you might end up sounding like David
[Music]
Gilmore now ignore all this for br stuff
we'll talk talk about that later on
let's just get nice and
[Music]
simple okay so there we go right notice
I'm in full control of every note um I'm
really making sure that I'm I'm jumping
about a little bit not crazy but a
little bit and I'm changing my rhythms
all the time so just try that for
yourself in B minor okay let's do two
more two more um we'll now switch to
Major okay so let's do the key of a
major okay can we do a major should be
we've kind of done this one as an
example so we should be able to do it so
we'll find our a note first right so e f
f sh g g Shar a okay now what do we do
with major pentatonic we take the little
finger and we go kind of backwards all
right so the a major pentaton looks like
this
in this
position hopefully you've been
practicing that okay so now we're going
to try improvising with that now the
thing to remember here obviously is when
you resolve your
improvising a is the note that you're
looking for okay and there's a couple of
these
notes through
it but we'll get to that a little later
on so for now just down here okay so
let's reset this lovely Looper and we're
going to quickly do something in a okay
so 1 2 3
[Music]
4 2 3
4 right so remember you've got your own
back and track to play along with this a
[Music]
major nice
[Music]
okay it's starting to get an ear for
what things sound good What notes sound
good to end
[Music]
on
okay okay so now we're going to do B
major okay so first of all let's find B
I know you guys can do this e f F sh g g
Shar a a Shar B okay so we did B minor
but the difference obviously is that
we're going to play the little finger on
the B and go this
[Music]
way
okay and there's our B major pentatonic
right so let's do uh the same thing
we're going to get a little Loop
together deliberately with this Loop I'm
going to play a fast loop okay because
just because you can't play at the speed
that the track is going it doesn't mean
you can't improvise over it some of the
best improvising in the world some of
the best improvisational players you
know just just play slower over faster
beats anyway because it sounds more
melodic so here we go I'll do something
quick so one two 1 2 3
[Music]
4 there we go it's happening it's all
happening so I'm still going to play
Slow though
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
and so on
remember to always
end on the B and there we go so there we
have it guys I hope this is all starting
to make sense with this kind of stuff
and the reason I'm going over and over
it is because repetition is what it's
all about this needs to be natural so
that when it gets to the point where
someone's like right we're playing in
the key of C minor you just do it you
naturally find the right place so have
fun with that and I'll see you next time
for another lesson
[Music]

Transcript for video 14/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v4-hFbEDSR8
hi guys welcome back and today what
we're going to be doing is expanding
your spider exercise repertoire now the
very first lesson we went through in
this lede course was with teaching you
that one two three four spider exercise
the world now I'm hoping that you've
been practicing that you've been using
it as a warm-up alongside all the scales
that we've been using and you've
gradually been raising the speed of that
you know you can always be pushing
yourself to faster and faster and I ask
you at the time to get at the 80 bpm but
now we should be thinking 90 100 maybe
even getting slowly up to 120 okay which
is the demonstration speed that I showed
to you guys now the great thing about
these spider exercises is that they
encourage you to kind of take each
finger individually so we're learning
with what we're learning to get finger
independence here okay and the good
thing about this new one that we're
doing today is it's going to help even
more with that because this new one that
we're doing is called the one three to
four spider exercise and that basically
means that we just do one three to four
rather than just one two three four okay
so the first thing I'm going to do is
I'm going to play it through a 100 bp8
120 BPM so with my trusty drum machine
and we just going to have a look at it
and then I'll break it down and we'll go
through it so let me get the beat on the
go okay so it sounds like this I'm going
to walk you through it count you in
so one two three four
[Music]
mmm
[Music]
okay there we have it let's get rid of
those drums so that's what the exercise
is that's what it looks like
and let me just break it down for you so
all we're doing is exactly the same
basic concept so thumb right at the back
of the neck as before exactly as before
nice and flat getting one finger per
fret on the first second third or fourth
fret but the difference is the order now
so we're going one the first fret then
two third fret notice that I don't take
my first finger off when I go to the
third fret there's absolutely no need
then I come back to the second fret so
here I do take my third finger off but
again that first finger stayed intact
where it is and then the fourth fret
with the little finger and again here
just to reiterate my first and second
fingers are staying on there's no need
for them to move at all so it's 1 3 2 4
ok and with the right hand it's down up
down
okay we repeat that on every single
string so we moved out 1 3 2 4 then the
next ring 1 3 2 4 then the next string 1
3 4 next drink again the other hand
stays right in position now now it's
when we get to the bottom my thumb is
still nice and in position is come down
a little bit as my whole hand has come
down but it stayed in position in that
correct kind of one finger per fret
position now at this point we're going
to reverse everything so we're going to
go 3 sorry - can't even count 3 1
ok so 4 2 3 1 okay and we do that all
the way back up the neck so we're going
to go for 2 3 notice the 2 space down
when I go to that 3 and then all start
again on the 1 then we come back to the
B string little fingers going to stretch
across notice I keep my hand my first
finger on this one so that the stretch
stays the same otherwise I might end up
doing something like that or you know it
all gone a bit funny so I want to keep
that stretch and then I'm going to go 4
3 1 next thing or 2 3 one for the
one next string 4-2-3-1 and come back to
the e okay and that's the exercise goes
simple as that so it is going to take a
little bit of time to get used to that
because of course again you're you're
kind of challenging your fingers can can
you say to yourself third finger go down
and that third finger does go down
that's that's what we're trying to do
here so that you're controlling each
finger individually so there's no rush
on the speed side of this one especially
not this one because this one can be
more complicated so what I'm going to do
now is we're going to play it along to
the beat and I'm going to put it at 80
BPM so I'm just going to change my tempo
down to 80 BPM and we're going to play
along to that if you're ready and if you
think you can do this then try and play
along with me but then if not just watch
and gradually kind of get it to this
position so let's put that bead on there
it is 80 BPM my favorite so here we go
after four we're going to do it twice as
well okay one two three four do that
alternate picking very important
[Music]
give you the pool apply for two three
one thumb stays firmly in the back might
hurt the wrist a little bit but just
plow through okay for the moment now
we're gonna start again ready 1 3 2 you
can do this as many times as you like
until it really starts hurting that's
good practice in return for
three
[Music]
okay
[Music]
and we are back okay
cool let's thought that beep so
excellent so there we have it there's
your new Spyder exercise you can do all
kinds of variations of these spider
exercises but the main two for me and
the I've always used with a 1 2 3 4 and
the 1 3 2 4 cause it's enough of a
variance but test yourself if you want
to try others especially later on in
your kind of guitar progress so anyway
there's your new practice tool so in
your warm-ups now you should have the 1
2 3 4 exercise you should have the G
Major scale the pentatonic scale and now
this 1 3 2 4 exercise as well you don't
see them all every time because
obviously the pentatonix you'll be using
more within the solos and the riffs that
we're going to do but do try and do
these spider exercises every time you
pick up a guitar
[Music]
you

Transcript for video 15/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkGxeimRtJE
welcome back guys and today we're going
to talk about legato and what that
really means in guitar terms is
hammer-ons and pull-offs so this kind of
thing if you see I apologize but that
kind of thing you know when you hear
very fluid playing and it sounds legato
that's that's what the term is
officially but in terms of guitar speak
its hammer ons where we kind of take one
note and push it on to the guitar
without plucking the second note and a
pull off where we may one note pull away
from it to another note and that's a put
off okay I'll go through them in detail
and what I've got for you today is a
cool exercise using our pentatonic shape
to practice your legato and it's really
going to push you it's really quite hard
when you first start doing this so let's
just first we'll talk about what a
hammer-on is and what a pull-up is and
just practice that so we're going to put
ourselves in our a minor pentatonic
where is important between yourself in a
scale so when you start so in a minor
pentatonic and I'm going to come down to
the string fifth fret okay so this is a
G note what I'm going to what we're
going to try and do is hammer on there
in the pentatonic scale the seventh fret
now the way you do it is quite simply
just pluck the first note and then you
force your third finger in this case
down to the seventh fret okay and that
will play the note without you actually
having to pluck it you might have
already accidentally been doing some
pull offs here and there as you've been
doing this if your plectrum hasn't quite
been keeping up so you might have
already stumbled across this but to get
it specific you need to make sure when
it goes down with a fair bit of force
okay you can generate that much force
from quite close to the football you
don't need to be like way back like that
it won't be very accurate you can
generate the force from very close to
the board okay we just got to push it
down quickly and hard and also try and
target the the kind of right side of the
fret so not back here it's going to bow
smile crosses you can get it without
going outside of the fret of course and
that is quite simply a pull up now I
would attempt to try it with so I pull
up a hammer on that's what that is I
would try it with some distortion if
you've got something on your amp or a
pedal or whatever you should be able to
get some kind of distorted sound and the
reason we're going to be using
distortion for or overdrive for using
legato is because a big part of it is
going to be controlling your right hand
what that does as well now we'll get to
that in a minute but for now try it with
Distortion
the other good thing about the
distortion is you get quite a bit more
sustained so you can hear how long that
note last for
go on and on until it just naturally
fades out okay if it goes and stops like
that it means you've taken the pressure
off of the hammer run too quickly okay
[Music]
as long as it can okay so that's a
hammer on okay so I just need to
practice that you can do it any way you
want but just practice it there for a
second now if you've got that feel free
to pause me I don't mind but if you've
got that we're going to do a pull off
okay so it's vice-versa and it's a
little bit trickier okay so we're going
to take the same two notes and the same
rep down to the fifth fret so the pull
off you're always going to be going
downwards in no okay so in this instance
the pull off is going to be from seven
to five like that okay on the D string
okay now the way we do it with pull ups
is a little bit different cause you
runyan remove the finger if you just do
that it's kind of unlikely you'll get a
very clear sound okay so the first thing
to bear in mind is that your first
finger needs to already be on the note
that it's going to be on okay so no
matter what the note you're going to be
putting off - it needs to be there
already now that might sound like a bit
of a mind game but actually you'll get
really used to that really quickly once
you start practicing this but anyway
what we're going to be doing is running
the third finger and then to pull off
basically you actually kind of pluck the
string with your third finger okay so if
you look here you can see I'm slightly
going down just ever so slightly because
I'm pushing in on the string and then
pulling away downwards okay and what
that's actually doing is it's kind of
doing the job of the plectrum by
plucking a string but down here on the
note okay the watch see I pull it away
and you can see it vibrates the string
and I'm plucking the string with my
right with my third finger okay and then
because this fingers there that's the
note that it's going to play if that
finger was there it would play that
if it was back there it would play that
okay
so that's kind of our pull off works now
again let's try with a bit of gain okay
hopefully we're giving the same sound as
that now like I said the pull off is a
little bit harder so just spend a bit
more time trying that one before you
kind of move on now what we need to do
is do a quick little exercise to help
you practice these things okay so what
I'm going to do is first of all I'm
going to demonstrate the exercise for
you I'm going to put my drum be on at
120 bpm
and you're going to do it a lot slower
than that but I'm just going to run you
through it and then we'll talk it
through so it looks like this let's get
the drum beat on and here we go one two
three four
[Music]
[Applause]
Oh
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
all right and there it is
lagarza this is the legato exercise and
what we're doing is deliberately like
really pushing you here again this is a
hard exercise for anyone to grasp okay
so this is something to be aiming
towards it's not something I expected to
get now right here today is something
you need to aim towards okay and
basically just to kind of talk about
what it is is it the G minor pentatonic
up and down the a minor pentatonic up
and down then the B minor pentatonic up
and down then the D minor pentatonic up
and down and then e minor pentatonic up
and down so we're just using the same
shape but changing keys basically and we
go all out to E and then we stop and
then you come down and start again now
within the shapes whereas normally we'd
be kind of picking this right so down
down down like that instead what we're
going to be doing is hammering on and
pulling off so for the first one let's
get that Distortion battle I'm going to
be doing in G minor okay so we're
starting on the G so on the fifth fret
I'm sorry the third fret and then
hammering onto the sixth fret because
that's the next note of the pentatonic
we're just going through the pentatonic
scale but all we're doing is we're
hammering on that
each time so follow that pentatonix
[Music]
hammer on so that little finger hammer
on can be a real tricky one guys to
spend time on that now on the way back
we're going to be pulling off okay so
little finger pull off to the first then
you pluck it so down and away
down and away again okay make it then
hopefully okay so that is basically what
you then do on every single shape you
get right and you just go through and a
minor B minor D minor I'll take you
through it again in a minute and it's
challenging like I said now the reason
it's probably the most challenging when
you add distortion is why I want you to
do it from day one
right now as long as you can access gain
from your amp or pedal or however you're
using it is you need to control the
sound with your right hand as well
so if you just have a little look at my
right hand okay you'll see that my kind
of thumb is is almost pretty much on the
strings because what I want you to get
is this pad this big old chunky pad here
in your palm of your hand to be kind of
just resting a little bit on the strings
okay so that as you go down the strings
so initially it's not resting on the
strings okay because you need a nice
sound from the e string okay but then as
I go down to the a string you can see
I'm going to start wrestling that pad on
the E string because what that's going
to enable to happen is that is going to
block off the sound from the e string
okay so don't just get
[Music]
sounds ringing together if your hand is
like that now the important thing is
that this this little pad of your hand
as long as you have to risk rotate it
like that so that the pad is almost on
the strings as you go down if you just
work that right hand see my padding of
the I don't know what else to call it
this little bit here is just naturally
just lifting on those lower string
so that even if I did accidentally hit
any of these
but from the very highest rings they're
all blocked off okay now that is the
hardest thing a lot that's the thing
that's going to take weeks and months
okay but the reason I want to do it now
is because I want you to just get used
to it it's going to be quite hard to get
back into that habit if you've developed
another like not as good habit should we
call it so if you do it now and you
start thinking about that now so as well
as thinking about the pressure of the
hammer-ons and pull-offs and the scale
you're also thinking about this okay so
it is challenging it is hard but I think
you guys can do it if you sit down and
practices every day you've got the tab
to make sure that you can practice along
with it at slower speeds or faster
speeds but what we'll do now is I'll set
my metronome down to 80 bpm so down to
the kind of level that we're a bit more
comfortable with and I'm going to go
through the whole exercise once for you
and which you can aim to play along at
this speed okay so here we go
so one two Starlin G minor
[Applause]
[Music]
well no rushing
[Music]
right play mother no yeah
[Music]
believe me guys
a lot of space
[Music]
the oldest alpha D - 10
[Applause]
[Music]
my last one really apply now
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
and there we have it so let's turn that
lovely bit off
so there's your task it's really tricky
and over the next couple of lessons
we're going to be side tracking from
that and actually starting to look at
some some riffs and some solos and
really cool musical things but in terms
of exercises to practice legato this is
the one for you
[Music]
[Music]

Transcript for video 16/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9a9X6vqbMjY
[Music]
[Applause]
a
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
a
[Music]
a
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
n
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
nah
[Music]
[Music]
aah
[Music]

Transcript for video 17/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Y_zCKtJ7-Q
hi guys welcome back and today what
we're going to be doing is that awesome
riff Legato based riff where we're going
to be practicing our hammer on and our
pull-offs and putting it into a song now
what I love about this little tune is
that it's the same thing over and over
again and the backing track kind of adds
loads of chords and and new drum fills
and new ideas making it really
interesting to basically play through
the same riff over and over again um but
by doing that it really gets the
consistency down this is what we want we
want for the whole track you can play
exactly the same riff just as well all
the way through so it's going to help
with the strength in your hand your
ability to do the Legato the hammer on
and the pull off as well as making sure
your right hand is matched up nicely to
your left hand cuz we're going to be
doing a lot of moving through strings
here so there's a lot covered in a fun
way uh as always and um the Riff is this
just to re clarify if you haven't
listened to the other
[Music]
video again
[Music]
again and then
finally okay so there's our riff so let
me just take you through it bit by bit
as you can hear there's three repetitive
parts and then on the fourth time round
it's a little different so we're going
to be in the a minor pentatonic
scale our favorite scale and it always
will be I'm sure the um the opening part
then starts on the seventh fret of the D
string so
that's that's an octave that's your a
okay and we're going to pull off so
we've talked about pull off so we're
going to pull off to the fifth fret so
remember we we kind of pulled the third
finger down and out to make it pluck the
string okay and we get the pulloff sound
to the fifth fret okay now after we've
pulled that
off we're going to go down to the
seventh fret
of the a string okay so that's all in
one little
movement notice that this first finger
doesn't really need to go anywhere okay
that stays exactly where it
is okay and this note is plucked okay so
that is picked so pull off pick then
we're going to jump up to the G string
fifth fret and grab that note okay and
I'm picking that so it means you're
going to have to jump the pleum from the
a string down to the D string
Okay so we've
[Music]
got okay now we're going to hold on to
that note for just a little bit more
we're not going to talk in technical uh
rhythmical terms here notation terms
we're going to do that by ear but then
we're going to come back to that root
note of a again okay so that's the
seventh fret of the D string so it
sounds like this Al together so
far now you will notice I give this this
one in the video and everywhere else A
little nudge just a little nudge now
don't worry too much about that for now
we're going to talk about that when we
get to bendz it's just a it's just a
little flash thing to make it all sound
really cool but I don't expect you to do
that right at this point okay so we're
going to
go and with the pleum hand we're going
pick down pick down there pick down
there but on this last note an upstroke
okay then we're going to come down to to
the fifth fret of the a string hammer on
to the seventh fret so that's a hammer
on then we're going to pluck the D
string fifth fret
okay and then go down to the eighth fret
of the E string and then finish on the
root note the a so that's the fifth fret
of the E string so that's another jump
with the plum across strings okay so
that second part is
[Music]
okay in terms of your Plum it's all down
Strokes down down down down okay so that
part all together sounds like
[Music]
this okay A bit
[Music]
slower okay
okay so just to make sure we've got the
rhythms correct we're going to put it
with the drum Looper at 80 BPM and then
just make sure we go over it a few more
times just to get it nice and ingrained
into the
skull and uh that's the best way to get
the Rhythm learned okay so it sounds
like this I'm going to count you 1 2 3
[Music]
4 if you can get up to this pace just
try and practice along with me
just going to keep going round and
[Music]
round okay right we'll come back to that
in a second so there you have it that's
the first part you repeat that three
times in the official song um before you
go to this
part okay so we've got a slightly
different bit here so we we start by
basally exactly the same with the pull
off from the seven to the five on the D
string down to the seventh fret on the a
string but then we come back to the D
string fifth fret we pluck it once and
then we pluck it again okay and The
crucial thing here is after the first
pluck you actually release the pressure
on the fretboard to make it stop rather
than this okay which will be one you
just just ever so slightly release the
pressure on that finger cuz then you're
going to PL pluck it again and hammer
on okay so you're
going it's a quick hammer on as
well okay so that's probably the most
complicated part initially but it will
it will get really easy um so it goes
like
this okay so to get that little gap
between the two parts you just release
the pressure on the fretboard okay with
the drum beat that bit sounds like like
this three
4 two we'll do it
[Music]
again okay cool right so final thing
guys is I'll just take you through one
whole Loop okay and then that Loop just
repeats the whole way through the song
with one exception just before just at
the end of the chorus before you start
the verse again you have a one bar break
so that's just one 2 3 4 okay one bar
break and you're back in again okay so
that will become obvious as you start
playing along with the song we don't
need to go through how many bars that is
because it would be silly to count so
here it is I'm going to add my
Distortion going to put my drum loop on
80bpm and I'm going to play through one
whole round and then it's yours to
practice so here we
go 1 2 3
4
again third
time and then the fourth time is
[Music]
different
okay there we have it guys so enjoy that
and I'll see you next time for some
lesson on
Slide
[Music]

Transcript for video 18/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wCSbbPPLyDI
hi guys welcome back and today we're
going to be talking about slides now
slides is a really cool technique and
it's it's the next natural one along
from the hammer on and pull-offs we've
already found that just by simply using
hammer on and pull-offs instead of
sometimes just picking through the scale
makes it all sound a little bit more
interesting more melodic more rhythmical
um and now with the slides we're going
to add even more scope to make it more
soloy type sounding okay and the more
techniques we gradually learn as we will
be doing the more you'll be able to see
how the scales give you the the kind of
alphabet as it were so the the kind of
letters and these give you the the
ability to really construct cool
interesting sentences and phrases okay
so these are the techniques now the
slides look like this so it's as you'd
expect so for
example sliding up and down the neck you
can do all kinds of ridiculous and
wonderful things
um and it can sound really
interesting
oh and uh you know you can slide all
over the place I'm just sliding between
the pentatonic notes okay and it gives
it for me a more kind of I guess vocal
sound because it's a natural slur of the
note rather than very specifically
plucking through different notes okay so
let's look at an example of slides and
in the next lesson we're actually going
to apply some to a solo you're going to
be learning your first solo so slide
number one slide up okay and when I say
up I mean up in note so going higher
okay and the first slide we're going to
look at is just simply
this okay couldn't get any more simple
than that in the slide world we
literally take our first finger on the
fifth fret so we're in pentatonic shape
one in a minor as always at the moment
and we're sliding up to the seventh fret
okay so it's kind of the equivalent of
just going or hammering on but we're
going to slide okay all different ways
of basically achieving the same concept
so important things to remember when you
slide is firstly make sure you make
really good contact with the first note
and you keep the finger pushed down nice
and hard okay now when you first start
doing this if you go too slow you're
going to get this kind of
sound so you're going to hear
the note in between okay so this is
where what I like to call targeting
comes in okay you have a note that you
start on and then you just Target in on
the note you're trying to get to and you
get to it as fast as you can okay so
just get right over there okay don't
think about what one you're getting to
as you're going because all that's going
to end up doing is you know you're just
going to be guessing like that so we've
targeted this seventh fret and we're
just going to attack it like that and
what you got to get used to is stopping
at exactly the right point so right at
the edge of the Fret just just as always
okay
now that's our first slide so that's the
first thing you want to try and get
right okay you can do it with any finger
I'd then practice it with the second
finger with the third finger even with
the little finger so you get used with
every finger to do the same movement in
return we're going to go seven to five
so a slide down these can actually feel
harder
only a little bit but exactly the same
principle okay you have your first note
you target the second note you stare at
it and when your finger gets there you
stop dead okay and you keep it held on
there to make sure that you know you
still got the note nice and strongly
okay again with all
fingers okay so that's your first thing
we can slide up and slide down with both
fingers slide up slide down so we're
plucking
and pluck
[Music]
it okay now the only other one we're
going to be looking at uh in the kind of
re the the near future is going to be
this so this will be slide up slide down
in one movement okay so the first thing
we just did there was actually up and
then we pluck again to slide down this
what I'm doing here is I'm actually on
the G string now just for demonstration
purposes and I'm going from five
to seven and then back to five but all
in one hit of the plum okay so I pluck
it here I go up down and you can hear
because I'm holding down really nice and
hard here I'm keeping it at the same
consistency the same level of
volume
[Music]
[Applause]
okay and that's quite hard to do and
again with all
fingers cuz as you get into kind of
soloing and improvising you'll
definitely be doing this with all
different
[Music]
fingers already sounds like a melody
doesn't it there's what you need to
practice okay to be ready for this next
video where you're going to be looking
at your first solo which is a really
cool little solo um you need to make
sure that you practice those slides all
different variations of that that I've
just shown you you can do it anywhere on
the neck in any pentatonic shape it
doesn't even have to be a pentatonic
shape you can practice going from any
fret you like let's say we took fret
five up to fret 12
12 almost Again The Wider the slide the
harder it is because you've got to
Target a certain
note okay and equally in
Reverse so yours to practice and next
time we'll look at that
[Music]
solar

Transcript for video 19/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RIPN_aV8JdE
[Music]
hi there guys and today we're going to
be running through that solo now
hopefully you all enjoyed that it's it's
a relatively simple pentatonic solo but
I've always said and I always stick by
the fact that the simple stuff sounds
the best okay and to make it sound good
when it's simple is really hard work
because you've got to make sure every
note is precise all those hammer on and
pull offs those slides and and just like
as nice a possible touch on the guitar
and that's something that as a guitarist
you're going to develop over time okay
but we're going to use the ears for the
Rhythm we're going to use the ears for
all of this kind of stuff and the more
you do that the better and better it's
going to get okay so let's just start
going through it the first thing we need
to do is put ourselves in the right key
so the whole song and the whole kind of
backing track is in the key of C minor
so what do we do we find our C minor
pentatonic so we're going to come up to
C so let's just do this quickly e f f sh
g g Shar a a Shar b c and now we're
we're going to do our minor
[Music]
pentatonic so the whole solo is written
in that and you'll find a lot of the
most classic most well-loved guitar
solos are just written in one simple
shape like that just played really well
okay so the opening part is
this the exact slide that we've been
practicing except in a different key so
we're sliding from the eighth fret to
the 10th fret you can use whatever
finger you feel comfortable with okay I
I don't know why but I always go for
that second finger I think it just gives
me options either side if I needed to do
anything
quickly okay and when we get to that
note we're going to hold it for just
over a bar so we're going to go like 1 2
3 4 1 okay now then we're going to do a
cool hammeron lick okay this is going to
be quite challenging guys it sounds like
this
okay now what that is is I'm simply
hammering on from the eighth to the 10th
on the D
string then I'm going down to the G
string and hammering on and pulling off
straight
away so remember when you pull off you
kind of pull down and away I am doing
that just doing it quite
quickly and then back to the root note
which is the 10th fret of the D string
and then finishing on the eighth fret of
the G string okay so really slow that's
this okay and then to finish off that
bar we're going to grab the 10th fret
third finger and slide down to the eight
okay so we got this all
together okay now let's put that
together so far okay so we start started
with
this
slide okay then your second lick
is followed
by okay so do this we're going to do
this in very much in small segments
every time you learn a solo however big
it is we just learn bar by bar or lick
by lick and then piece those licks
together as we go okay so I just want to
show you before we piece this all
together the next part which is this
[Music]
okay which is just simply 8 to 10 and
then back on the D string okay so slide
up and slide back down
again okay so we kind of got let's call
it three licks maybe four you could
potentially say and the first one is
this 2 3 4
1
oh there we go and Then followed
by okay so before we do any more let's
get a drum beat
going okay now this is at 70 BPM so
we're we're relatively slow here um and
I'm just going to put it to the beat so
you can practice with the beat okay so 1
2 3 4 1 2 3 4
One 2 3
okay we'll go again again here we go 1 2
3 4
1 1 2
3
okay so you might not have been ready to
do it quite at that speed yet but just
the more we listen to it against the
beat the more the rhythm is going to
sink into us okay now at that point of
the solo we're going to move higher up
the scale and we're going to go like
[Music]
this okay now first things first you
might notice me on the video using my
third finger to stretch across from the
eighth fret to the 11th fret okay now
really you should use the little finger
there but there's something that we
we'll learn gradually as we go through
more and more solers is that sometimes
you know the stretch across makes a lot
of sense okay so I'm going to leave that
one up to you guys if you feel more
comfortable doing the little finger then
do it if you feel more comfortable doing
the third finger then do it absolutely
up to you if you can do the second
finger then go for it but um whatever
feels more comfortable so I'm going to
go 8 11 and then eight so that's the
eighth fret of the E string okay and
we're hammering on those first two
notes and then picking that one okay
then we're going to do almost exactly
the same thing again
but finish on the 11th fret of the E
string right up there
okay so those two together are
this 2 3 4
[Music]
1 okay so what we'll do now is I'm going
to slow down the beat a little bit okay
just a really make sure we can do it 60
BPM play through everything up to that
stage okay okay so you ready 1 2 3
4 2 3 4
[Music]
1 1 2
3 two big gap three here we
go 2 3 4
[Music]
One okay there we are
there we are so far now after that we
get a nice challenging lick but a really
cool one and it sounds like
this so more
Pace this can sound
great this can sound great and this is
the power of the pulloff because and the
and the hammer on because you can do
them quicker so all we're doing is from
eighth uh 11th fret down to eth fret on
the B string now we're pulling it off
once and then we're doing exactly the
same thing again so we're plucking
pulling off
[Music]
again okay so exactly the same thing
twice then down to the uh g string where
we're going to pull off from 10th to
eight
twice okay notice we pick it twice pick
pick okay then we come back oop sorry
back to the root note okay and then
eighth fret of the G string so it's like
this
okay and then to finish off the entire
solo we're going to grab the eighth fret
twice so we're going to hit this eighth
fret but we're going to flatten against
the D and the g string to give us a kind
of double sound almost like chord sound
okay and we're going to slide that
across to the 10th fret both Frets so
this both strings sorry so this is D and
G string
and then slide it back okay so this is
going to really kind of grate on the
finger a little bit but it sounds so
cool
okay then we're going to go to 10th fret
on the low a string on the a string and
then hammer on from 8 to
10 on the D
string so that last
[Music]
lick so those last two licks together
really slow sound like
this okay so watch that as many times as
you need what I'm going to do now is
place the whole solo at this 60 BPM so
really slow here's the sound of the drum
um and I'm just going to go through it
once the whole way through um and you
need to listen to that over and over
again to get the rhythms it's always the
process of first of all you get the
notes you get the fingers in the right
place you get the technique right then
gradually you put it together with the
beat and with the audio tracks to make
sure you've got the rhythms correct and
then you start looking at how to make it
all sound as wonderful as possible okay
so here it is all together after four
ready so 1 2 3 four lick one nice and
simple 3 4 1
[Music]
2
3 1 now we go higher three
4 2 3 4
[Music]
1 okay there we have it so your first
solo It's Tricky you know it's it's it's
a hard solo because there's loads going
on it's the first time you've had this
much to remember as well for a lot of
new students it's just a simple
remembering of the bits that need to
come next and this is all about
repetition so do it as many times as you
can I want the kind of the actual audio
and you need to listen to the audio put
it on your mp3 player do what you have
to do to make sure you have it in your
head and in your soul so that you can
sing the Rhythm if you can sing the
Rhythm then this gets a whole lot easier
cuz you know exactly what you're trying
to achieve out of it so good luck with
that and I'll see you next time
[Music]

Transcript for video 20/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hZ8aEVMZjpQ
hi there guys and welcome back and today
what we're going to be doing is looking
to advance our speed on the guitar by
learning a sequence now the first thing
I want to talk about is um why why we
try to do that in the first place why do
we try to advance our speed on the
guitar and it's a pretty simple answer
and it's just because so many of the
solos so many of the riffs so many of
the songs that we're going to need to be
able to play we're going to just have to
get these fingers moving quicker to play
them that doesn't mean that you have to
always play fast and that's an advanced
argument but um it means that you've got
the tools if you need to use them okay
so we're going to be learning how to
play a little bit quicker and get the
fingers moving and the reason we use
sequences is because quite often when
you see players playing really quick
kind of passages in solos or improvising
or or doing riffs um it's something
that's well rehearsed well practiced put
into a improvisational setting and
that's why they're so useful okay
because not only are they exercises but
they're actually used usable in settings
okay in in you know when you improvise
when you have Jam nights when you're
writing music so that's why we learn
sequences and that's why I love
sequences now the sequence we're going
to learn today is called uh three up one
down and it's a pentatonic based
sequence and it and it kind of looks a
little bit like this there it is there's
the
[Music]
[Applause]
rock something like that guys now as you
can see I've practiced that a lot hence
why it's quite quick reasonably quick
now we I'm going to slow that down
massively for you but I just wanted to
demonstrate that you know if you had
this in an improvisational setting let's
say I was playing along to a cool little
um backing track now I'm just going to
do this really quickly for you so one
two 3
[Music]
4 and I was just playing around with my
[Applause]
pentatonic and I wanted to use a
sequence like
[Music]
this I could and it would sound
[Music]
great
so because that's that's the point of
learning these sequences they are
available and usable once you've got
them up to a good place to using your
improvising okay so let's break it down
first things first it's in the key of B
minor so let's find B shall we so e f f
g gsh a a Shar B and then we find our B
minor
pentatonic and this is our shape okay
now we should all be really good at
doing this by now I'm going to keep
bugging you about it and make sure that
you do learn these notes on the neck now
then the sequence goes as follows like I
said it's three up one down and what I
mean by that is we're going to go three
strings through the pentatonic so we're
going to go one string two string three
string like that okay so it's just the
first six
notes of the B minor pentatonic in this
case then you're going to drop back a
string so you're going to come back to
the start of the a string and go three
strings up from there like
this remembering the shape in your head
okay so three strings up from there okay
let me just recap that again so we start
where we normally start on the B on the
root note we go three strings
up so that's six notes we then go back a
string that's the one down bit so we go
back to the start of the a string so IE
the start where our scale is on the a
string so seventh fret and we go three
up from
[Music]
there at that point we drop back one
string again to the start of the D
string and go up three from
[Music]
there obviously you know remember the
shape as you go through it is all within
the shape you only use the notes of the
shape then we go back one from there to
the start of the G string and go three
[Music]
up okay now we're at the top okay so let
me just do that really nice and slow for
you okay
[Music]
so back of string start again three
up back of string
[Music]
back a
string okay that's it really for the way
on the way down or the way up however
you want to consider it that is the
start that's how we do it okay in
Reverse it's exactly the same so we go
down three
strings and then we're going to come
back to the little finger on the B
string rather than the first finger cuz
we're coming in Reverse remember here so
we're going to go B string
okay then g string starting from where
the third finger is in this
case then D
string and we're there we're back at the
start okay so it's at first these
sequences can take a little bit of time
to get into your head just just
understanding the sequence what the
sequence actually is so just to really
help it along I'm going to do it really
slow now with my drum be um and I think
we'll do it at 70 BPM okay to really
give you a chance to find your way
through it um and importantly there's no
gaps in between so we don't want
[Music]
this like that there's no gaps in
between so it all sounds like one fluid
um kind of sequence okay so here's the
drum beat let's give it a go
oh yeah nice and steady okay and here's
what it should all sound like okay so
I'm going to come in after four 2 3
[Music]
4 back of string up
three back a string yeah hopefully
you're starting to get this
now back of
[Music]
string and then we go again but now
we're in
Reverse so we come back out to the B
string
[Music]
there I'm just highlighting those
[Music]
changes okay what I'm going to do is I'm
just going to double that speed now just
so you hear it in a bit more contextual
kind of idea two one 2 2 3
[Music]
4 just
[Music]
highlighting okay there we have it so
let me stop there now then that is to be
practiced um nice and slow just as as
I've done we're learning it in B minor
so the actual tab is all tapped out in B
minor for you just a double check you
really kind of understand those notes
that I'm playing but remember it's just
in the pentatonic shape one so you can
you can practice it in G minor in a
minor and remember when it comes to the
point where you start to improvise and
write solos you can pull that out in any
key if you were playing in G minor you
[Music]
know you could pull that out and and
construct a really cool like solo run as
it were so there's your first task get
that together and I'll see you next time
[Music]

Transcript for video 21/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_PDLo0yPTtY
hi there guys welcome back and what
we're going to be doing in today's
lesson is talking about Benz now um this
is going to be a really crucial and
important part of your improvising your
skills with playing solos and riffs
because they're the most expression part
of the guitar really it's it's the
specific thing that a lot of other
instruments can't do and it and it's
because you can actually go through
notes okay so you can actually make a
sound that goes between two notes and
hear kind of micro tones or whatever you
want to call them just it makes it way
more vocal as sound okay on the guitar
So today we're going to look at three
different types of bends we're going to
look at a full bend a half Bend and a
quarter Bend with a stop okay and I'm
just going to talk as we go through them
where you might hear these bends and
what they might be used for so we're
going to start with the full bend the
full Bend sounds something like
this okay and it looks like that okay
now let me just talk about what I mean
when I say full Bend what it means is we
go up a tone okay so on the guitar to
keep this really simple a tone is two
Frets so let's say I was on this seventh
fret of the G string and I was bending
up a whole tone a tone um I would go so
that I'm not playing the Note One fret
above but I'm going to be looking for
the sound two Frets above that's one
tone up that's a full Bend okay so when
I come to actually Bend this note I'm
looking to bend it up to that sound okay
so that's your first little task is
knowing what sound you're actually
trying to get and it's that if you're
trying to bend the seventh fret up it's
should sound like a tone above okay so
then we got to think about what do we do
on the guitar okay and there's two ways
of approaching bends and I'm going to
show you both of them and you decide
which one feels more comfortable and
more natural for you okay so the first
way is to have the thumb at the back
like we've always talked about okay
because that's just really good
technique with the thumb at the back
then what we do is we take the first
finger and second finger and place them
behind the third finger okay that's
really important because that means that
you've got support for your third finger
when you push this up then you're going
to really force all three fingers down
you're going to clamp them in with the
with the thumb at the back so they're
they're both squeezing together as if
you're trying to squeeze this fretboard
and then as you pluck the string you're
just going to push the string up as high
as you can for now okay so at first you
know it's not going to go very far and
then just gradually gradually just keep
pushing and just keep working with it
until you're starting to get it up to
the point where it
sounds like that so remember what we're
looking for is the sound two Frets up so
we play The Sounds two Frets
up and then we Bend up to that sound
okay now in my opinion that's that's
quite hard initially but those that do
get get it down like that it's really
helpful technique wise because of course
you can generally have your thumb at the
back anyway okay now the other way
around is to actually have the thumb
over the top it just adds more kind of
Leverage for when you bend it up so
everything else is the same your first
finger and second finger are behind the
third finger but now your thumb's kind
of cramped over the top which means as
you push these all down and try and bend
the string up your thumb kind of comes
towards the the the fingers and it feels
quite natural like that certainly for me
anyway so when I try and bend that that
for me is a lot easier okay but I've had
lots and lots of students over the years
and I know that it's not for everyone so
decide either way which one do you
prefer at the moment so there we have
it full tone Bend with the thumb over
the top or at the back whatever you
prefer either way you're looking for
this
sound and then you
gradually Bend up to it okay now that's
a full Bend there's also Al something
called a half Bend which you might have
guessed is just simply half of that so
you just bend up a
semitone okay so one fret so again we
just kind of take the
Fret so that's the eighth fret we grab
it I'm going to do the thumb over the
top for the moment but remember you can
do it at the back as well and we just we
just push it up a little bit so nowhere
near as much as it took to get the full
Bend okay and that should give
us the half Bend
okay now the half Bend is much more
useful in like Blues For example where
you going to kind of Bend up to Blues
notes and things like that something
we'll get to later on um the full Bend
is much more your classic rock pop kind
of sound because it's it's obvious you
know you you're going to naturally Bend
up a whole tone because that's the next
note along in the sequence but the half
Bend can really be very useful as well
and you'll see that when we look at the
solo next now the only other one to look
at is the quarter Bend for now qu to
bend with a stop and this is what I call
a question mark okay so basically what
happens is typically you use your first
finger but you can use any finger but
we're going to practice on the first
finger for now I'm going to go fifth
fret of the G string and the quarter
Bend is just a little nudge and it's
downwards rather than upwards okay we're
going to deliberately go downwards with
it just to separate it from the other
two okay so I'm just going to go
down a little nudge okay and then what
happens is when I just slightly done it
with the plum if you look at the pleum
hand I'm just touching the plum against
the string and it stops IT dead watch
this you see that just touched it
against the
string and it stopped it
dead now I love that sound that's very
bluesy that's for me is a question mark
because let's let's just put that at the
end of a phrase so let's say I've gone
like
[Music]
this you can hear it's not resolved it's
not finished
yet it adds a question mark which we
might
resolve like that for example so um
three types of bends for you you've got
full Bend where we go up two Frets
okay you've got a half Bend where we go
up one
fret and you've got a quarter bends
where you just do a little nudge down
and stop it with your right hand okay
three types of bends to try obviously
the first thing you've got to get right
is just the basic mechanics of it all so
do you have your thumb over the top do
you have the thumb at the back either
way is absolutely fine by me whatever
you prefer but make sure these three
fingers are behind that third finger
okay as you build up more and more
strength we're going to be able to bend
it with our second finger and even our
first finger but we need to build up the
strength like this first so at the
moment any bends we're going to be doing
really are going to be using the third
finger to build up the strength so
practice those and next time we're going
to do a little solo using
[Music]
bends

Transcript for video 22/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ORuq8dbXvz4
[Music]
oh
[Music]
hi guys and what we're going to be doing
is going through that solo and let's
just start by putting you in the right
key this is in the the key of D major
okay so let's come back to that
pentatonic Theory we did and let's find
the D so on the E string the D is all
the way up uh here okay you should have
been able to go through it e f f g g sh
a a sh b c c sh D and what do we do when
we get to Major if we want to find our
major pentatonic we put our little
finger on the D
and go backwards so it's kind of like
it's in B
minor but we're starting from the D so
we call it D major okay so there's the
scale shapes that we're using okay now
I'm going to take you through lick by
lick we're using a lot of different
bends here so let's start with the
opening lick which is
this okay relatively simple let's go
through it so first of all it starts off
the beat so you go
one main thing to realize but what we do
is we're grabbing the uh ninth fret here
on the G string and we're bending up a
full
tone and then back down again okay now
the tricky thing here and this is
surprisingly hard okay so I want to take
this nice and slow you bend it up a full
tone so that should be the sound of two
Frets up remember and then your pleum is
just going to touch it but no more okay
because that's going to stop the sound
dead okay then you bring the string back
down this all happens quickly obviously
but you do it like this and then you
pluck it
again so you
get okay so that's how you get the
separation between the bend and the note
that's down again so real
slow and then we're going to go back to
the seventh fret okay and then we're
going to come back to the ninth fret
okay so it's
okay now the second lick is almost
identical except you end differently so
you got like
[Music]
this okay so we've got the same thing so
bend up block the string back down to
the seven and then we're going to go
nine pull off hammer on again back to
the
nine so that's a pull off followed by a
hammer
on okay okay now at the endend of that
we're going to take the seventh fret on
the B string and we're going to bend it
up a half tone so that's from here to
here and then we're going to bring it
back down really slowly so like
this okay now this the first Bend you've
ever done with your first finger so it's
going to be quite hard but really force
it up there if you do it with the thumb
at the back it's just the
same okay but of course the difference
is you don't have fingers supporting you
this time so it's a little bit
harder now let me put those first three
licks together for you so we got like
this
[Music]
one second
leg and then the
bend okay there we have it so there's
your first three licks together we're
just going to do that with a drum beat
to make sure you really start to get
those rhythms 70 BPM so this is a lot
slower than the actual track but a
little faster than that so it's going to
be like this one 2 3 4
[Music]
1 2
3
okay so pause the video there go over
that as many times as you want to get
that bit right then we move move on so
our next lick looks like
[Music]
this okay so this one's real kind of
cool sound it's a really big bend what
we're doing is we're building up on the
pentonic scale so we're going seven
hammer on to
nine then back to the seventh fret and
then I'm going to grab the 10th fret
with my third finger so remember we're
still in the pentatonic shape and you
can see I bring all three fingers along
so they're in that position that we
talked about in the previous video and
I'm going to
bend a whole tone so that's up two
Frets so up to there okay we're going to
try and get that pitch right and you're
going to really leave it hanging up
there and hold it down because we want
to be bringing it slowly back down okay
the more gain you've got on that the
easier it is to
hear okay so it comes back down as well
okay so it's like
[Music]
this okay one thing I forgot to mention
is that you do hit the 10 first so we
go so we pluck that first and on the
second here we go up okay and then
gradually back down so one more
[Music]
time
okay now we've we've got another lick
after that okay which is very kind of
similar but we're going to do a higher
Bend this time so we're going to go like
[Music]
this and then it finishes like
[Music]
this okay so let me take you through
that so we're going to start on the
seventh fret of the E string and then
seventh fret of the B
string and you can just either flatten
your finger there or you can roll it
over like that if you flatten the finger
you'll get this sound where they join
together if you roll it over then you'll
get the sound of them separate okay
ideally we want the separate sound and
then you're going to grab the the the
ninth the 10th fret sorry of the high E
string and do a full tone Bend so from
here to
there now that is going to hurt okay
that's like really thin string and it's
really going to dig right into the
finger giving you massive dense and
believe me by the end of this solo by
the end of learning this solo your
fingers are going to be ripped to shreds
so it's a really positive and really
good thing that that's happening because
it's developing more and more calluses
and getting stronger fingers okay so
you're going to bend that up a full
tone and then that same thing where what
we're going to do is we're going to stop
it with the plectrum so just by touching
the plum on it bring it down and then
play it down here as as normal so it's
like
[Music]
this you see how we stop that it's a
little bit smoother in
[Music]
[Applause]
reality okay but we need it nice and
slow for now until you get the the gist
of it okay and then finishing on
seven 10th fret of the B string and then
back to
seven okay so let's just recap all those
different licks and then we'll start
pieing in them together so the first
lick is
[Music]
this second
[Music]
lick third
lick fourth
[Music]
lick fifth
[Music]
lick and then
six okay so what I'm going to do now is
I'm going to take my drum machine and
I'm going to slow it down even more to
60 BPM put it back
on okay and I'm going to play through
all of those bits together in Rhythm and
then it's for you guys to go away and
make sure those bends are sounding great
you're getting the Rhythm together
remember you do it piece by piece so you
kind of put it together like a jigsaw
puzzle lick one with lick two then lick
three with lick one and two then lick
four with lick one two and three and so
on okay so here we go 2 3 4 1
[Music]
[Music]
okay there it is guys so obviously you
know there's a backing track available
to play along to there's the tab and
everything else to make sure that the
pitch is sounding really good um by
playing along with the the audio files
it helps you get your pitch right
because you'll be able to compare it
when you play it like that kind of
Acappella let's call it with just the
drum be sometimes it can be a little
harder to to say is that pitch totally
correct if you actually play it with the
music you'll hear pretty quickly if it's
if it's flat or sharp because um it's
going to really jar across the music so
there we have it guys there's your Ben
solo and we've done a lot of stuff now
with regards to lead and riffing and all
kinds of exercise and everything else to
get your fingers moving and your theory
working and next time what we're going
to do is we're going to learn a song
which combines pretty much everything
we've learned together which will really
help solidify all the elements
[Music]

No transcript available for video 23/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D4mbgY_VWNo

Transcript for video 24/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VsHv3bp_6-Q
hi guys welcome back and what we're
doing today is looking at that first
full song which is a kind of Foo
Fighters inspired tune which brings
together everything that we've done so
far so it talks about the pentatonic
scale it's got full scale so major scale
stuff in it it's got um various
alternate picking ideas it's it's just
got everything in it and on top of that
there's the pressure to kind of learn an
entire song so this is something that is
a skill that every guitarist needs to
learn it's not just about learning part
here part here little bits it's all
about being able to put it all together
in one song and really you know make it
sound like a tune make it sound real so
that's what we're going to be talking
about and there's two parts to this tune
and in this first video I'm going to
take you through the first bit which is
the Riff so let me just play you the
Riff first I'm going to put my
distortion on to play through it um and
I'm going to play it through like this
you ready so 1 2 3 4
[Music]
and there it is so there's our riff now
it's pretty hard to go through and if
nothing else it's just quite hard to
remember so first of all let me put you
in the right position we're using the
the C or E major pentatonic okay now let
me just refresh you as to that so the
reason I say C or E major is because
this song it it kind of fits both into
both keys it's a little bit minor it's a
little bit major but we know full well
by now that that's that should be
exactly the same thing right so cuz
we're going to come up to C Shar so
let's get our way up to there so e f f g
gsh a a Shar b c c sh okay so we're up
here that's on the ninth fret is the c
Shar now the E of course is the 12th
fret cuz we know that the
octave the double dots mean that we're
back on the first note which is e so
whether I start on the C Shar or the E
determines whether or not this scale
shape is major or minor
really so that's why I say it's in
either the key of C sh
[Music]
minor or the key of E major
hopefully we can hear the difference
between those two okay so if you're
still not sure about that then go back a
few lessons and and just brush up on the
major and minor pentatonic ideas now
then that's where we are okay and we
kick off right up here on the 12th fret
of the B string okay now what I want to
just add to this is that we're
occasionally hitting two extra notes
okay so the pentatonic has got five
notes okay so like 1 2 3 4 5 and then it
all starts again 1 2 3 4 5 and then it
all starts again over and over again and
remember when we did the major scale
that had seven notes right well
occasionally we're going to hit those
two extra notes that we normally leave
out of the pentatonic for the major now
don't get bugged down in this for the
moment because that's in a later course
where we talk exactly how that works and
how to use it for our own solar for now
just accept that these extra notes that
we're heading in are from the major
scale okay so we're
doing from the B note so that's the 12th
fret of the B string down to
the 10th fret of the B
string then to the ninth fret of the B
string then we're going to the 11th fret
of the G string okay just follow these
notes then the ninth fret of the G
string so we've got so
far so most of this looks like the
pentatonic there's just that one extra
note that we've added in there the rest
is
pentatonic okay then we're going to come
down even further to the 11th fret of
the D string then back up to the
9th and then the
11th and we're going to break it up
there so this is going to be our first
little Run Okay so let's just do it nice
and simply so
12 10 9 11
9 11 and then back up
9 11
okay okay now the other thing to
remember is that we're doing two notes
on each position in each fret basically
okay so two PL two two pluck of the plum
uh that was a bit of a tongue twister
for me um so we're going down up down up
down up down up down up down up down
down up down up okay so at this point it
sounds a little bit like a nursery rhyme
you know when you do that slowly um but
let me just do a little bit more up to
Pace that that same
run so it's really important to get it
up to the speed that we need to get it
up to that you're doing it um nice and
Alternate like that so down up down up
all the time otherwise it's going to be
a real strain on the right hand okay so
there's your first little Run Okay so
just pause the video spend a minute or
two just going over
[Music]
this until you've got that together now
assuming I'm unpaused and we've carried
on um we're going to go to the next
little run which is
[Music]
this okay so let me take you through
that first of all um assuming we
understand that we do double hit on
every single note I'll just take you
through the notes so so we start on the
nine on the G string then we come back
to the eight so that's another one of
those major scale notes this is not from
the pentatonic this is a major scale so
we just accept that for
now then we come back into our
pentatonic shape over to the 11th fret
of the D string then ninth fret of the D
string 11th fret of the a string and
then we're going to go back up ninth
fret and then when we get to the 11th
fret again of the D string what we're
going to do is we're going to bend it a
full tone now previously when you're on
when we've done full tones we've gone
upwards like that and you're more than
welcome to do that but for me a little
rule I live by is that for the E A and D
strings if I need to bend I bend
downwards just because think of it
really really logically really basically
you've got more fret ball going that way
because you're on the lower half of the
ball AR you so it you've got more room
to bend higher here you're going to
quite quickly get to the top of the
actual board itself and there's nowhere
nowhere else to go okay so we're just
going to bend that down a full
tone and then back up again like that
okay so remember a full tone is two
Frets
up okay so that run again let's go
through it so we've
got 8 uh 9 8 11 9 11
9 and then we got like that okay so I'm
going to do it with the double picking
now as well well and I just want you to
start getting the Rhythm idea in your
head so we're going to
[Music]
go and that's what the Rhythm should
sound like okay so
again try and notice the fingers I'm
using I want you to use the
same okay so let's put those two parts
together so we get this
[Music]
part two straight into
it okay cool excellent so then all we've
got to do is add one last bit and we've
got the whole riff okay first thing to
mention is that happens twice that part
there you do all of that twice okay so
after you've done that twice you have
this last part which just simply goes
like this
[Music]
and that's the end okay of the whole
riff okay so that's just simply 11 9 11
9 11 on the D string 9 11 9 and we stop
okay and after that we break for a whole
bar okay so I'm going to put that all
together for you with the drum beat um
as we do and it's really important that
we we practice along to beats just to
make sure we're getting the The rhythms
right um and then we'll see how we go
we'll do it nice and slow so I've got it
set up at 100 BPM at the moment which is
going to be pretty steady but you might
still need to work up to it okay so
let's just go for this ready 1 2 3
[Music]
4 again
[Music]
last
[Music]
part and that's it okay what I'll do is
just for you guys that couldn't quite
keep up with that we're going to slow it
right down cuz that was pretty quick to
be fair we'll get right back down to 80
BPM our favorite beat right this is the
one there we go and we'll do it at this
pace as well hopefully you guys that
couldn't keep up with that try this
remember you've got the tab as well to
actually play along to which you can set
at any speed you want so 1 2 3 here we
[Music]
go again
[Music]
and then the last
[Music]
bit okay there we have it guys now at
the end of that you weit one whole bar
which is essentially 1 2 3 4 before you
come into the verse now I'm going to
take you through the verse in the next
video because that's more than enough to
get on with really practice that until
you've got it as good as you can at
least up to 80 BPM if not a little bit
quicker um and then approach the next
video where I'll show you the verse
[Music]

Transcript for video 25/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=juBeBdCrn3w
hi guys welcome back and hopefully
you've now got that initial that opening
riff together or at least to some extent
now what we're going to be doing now is
the verse and the first thing I want to
do is just play it for you so you know
what we're going to be playing so let me
turn the gain on and here we go one 2 3
4
[Music]
and then it basically repeats that with
some finer details that I'll go through
in a minute so first of all hopefully
you notice that it's it's not your
classic lead part it's more of a riff
based idea and it's based very much
Around chords now something you all have
studied if you've been looking over in
the chord section is power chords and
that's all this is this is basically
just high-end power chords that you're
playing through now if that doesn't make
any sense to you at all then it's all
dealt with in the chord section for now
we're just going to focus on the
technique of playing this because
there's some it might look relatively
simple but there's some quite intricate
parts now first of all let's just take
our first chord or riff which is
this okay and what we're doing is we're
starting up here in the uh sixth fret of
the D string that's where my first
finger is going and my third finger is
hovering over
the eighth fret of the G string okay
that's kind of like the chord notice
that I've got my thumb firmly at the
back as always and I'm able to stretch
across those two like that okay so
that's pretty much what you're playing
so you notice this isn't like a
pentatonic scale or a G Major scale or
anything like that this is more an
arpeggio of a chord so outlining the
chord now let's just keep it simple for
now and just hold that down there okay
and we're going to learn the picking
pattern with the right hand so it goes
like
this but slightly better than that um so
what we're doing is we're going down up
on the D string okay so down up and then
down on the G string down up down like
that okay then we're going to come back
onto the D string with an upstroke down
up down
up okay down up down up down up
so let's just do this nice and slow so
we're doing D string
twice down on the G string and then
we're going to go up down on the D
string and finally an up on the G string
so I'm going to play it really slow and
talk it through so it's down up down up
down
up down up down up down
up okay so really this is the key to
getting this part basically right so I'm
just going to put my drum machine on at
80
BPM in fact I'm going to go a little bit
slower than that even we're going to go
right down to 70 for now oh do you know
what
60 let's really make sure this ingrains
in your head so it'll
[Music]
be so we're going down up down up down
up down up down up down up down up down
up down up down up down up down up keep
trying to play along with me down up
down up down up down up down up down
up Okay cool so you do that as long as
you need until that picking motion is
natural it's it's very specific and I we
need it to be like that for it to be
flowing and rhythmical sounding that
there's specific down and up Strokes to
ensure that you're doing alterate
picking even though you're jumping
across strings okay it's going to make
it really nice and rhythmical now what
we then need to do to that to make it
now work as a rock sound so that's kind
of almost you know soft
rock because the I guess the difference
here is that the notes are ringing
together cuz you're just holding these
two fingers down like a chord the notes
are ring in together what we need to
make it sound like is
this so we separate the notes and it's
it's pretty simple but can be quite hard
to get together with your left hand as
soon as you finish plucking the D string
you're going to just take the pressure
off now you might need to take your
whole finger off you might just need to
release the pressure it depends how in
control of that you are at the moment
I'm going to do an exaggerated version
by taking my fingers off okay so like
this so you see I once talked about this
seesaw effect and not wanting to do it
well in this case we kind of do a little
bit you know we do want the fingers to
go off and on because they're on
different strings and to individualize
the sound of the string you need to stop
the other string from ringing quite
simply and you do that by taking your
fingers off or just releasing the
pressure so the kind of outwardly
obvious way is taking the fingers off
that far
okay you can see how far those fingers
are coming away from the fretboard okay
now you can also just do it much more
subtly than that by just releasing the
pressure so down up as you play the G
string just release the pressure of your
first
finger and it's done the same
job so you can see there it doesn't look
like my fingers are moving at all but I
would suggest starting with the obvious
thing to make sure your fingers are in
tune with you and then gradually kind of
reduce the amount of movement your
making okay especially as you get faster
doing this so there you have it there's
the kind of picking part now spend as
much time as you like getting that
correct because all we then need to do
is just place the fingers in the right
places okay so what we essentially do is
we're going to do that first one twice
round okay so like
[Music]
this and
[Music]
again then we're going to move this kind
of shape down to Frets so one two so try
and keep the shape like it's a chord
okay and then we do exactly the same
thing here so I've now got fourth fret D
string and sixth fret g string and we do
exactly the
same
twice okay then we return to the first
one and do it
twice then back to the second one do it
twice
[Music]
then we go down another two Frets one
two same kind of chord position uh
fingers in the same place but now on the
second fret and the fourth fret we do
exactly the same
[Music]
thing okay and then that's your first
Loop okay and you would do that twice
okay so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go round that Loop twice with
our lovely drum be at 60
BPM just to show you how that should
sound okay you can start practicing with
Distortion as well if you want because
then you start to hear whether or not
you're controlling this sound um when
there's a bit more gain so if you've got
the ability to put some distortion on
the amp or a pedal then use it so here
we go 2 3
4 twice
[Music]
we do those
again nice and
slow and again make sure your
picking is correct down up down up down
up then we come down
[Music]
then we're going to start all over
[Music]
again
[Music]
down those ones again
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
then
[Music]
[Applause]
down now at this point we're just going
to go like
this okay so at that point when you've
done all of that you just put the fourth
fret of the D string on with your first
finger and you're going to hold that
down for essentially two bars
okay which is one 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 two very
slow bars of course um and that after
that will take you back to your main
riff okay so there's your rhythm part
now in terms of putting it all together
you've got two parts and in terms of
structure it's very very simple we do
the intro which is the the actual main
riff then we have that bar break
remember we just have a one bar where we
do absolutely nothing get yourself in
position for this and then you place
through that whole part that I just went
through back to the Riff and then it you
know repeats so then you have the bar
break and then you go back to the verse
and then you end on the Riff okay so
that is something that the the structure
of it is something you'll get from
watching the playthrough video okay um
so with that in mind remember you've got
the tab to go through which has got it
you know all nice and very clear for you
and you can kind of slow it down and do
what you want with that make sure you've
got it correct and then gradually you
want to be getting it up to the PACE
where you're actually playing along with
the video it might take a few weeks but
this is supposed to be challenging guys
I don't want to make it too easy for you
and you're going to get a hell of a lot
out of this if you get it up to that
speed with the right technique you know
if you do get out to that speed with
this correct technique that I've gone
through you're going to be in a superb
position to carry on through the course
because you're now going to have the
tools that's going to enable us to take
things a whole level further so good
luck with that and I'll see you next
time
[Music]

Transcript for video 26/26: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K4eVHnB5q90
hey guys Dan here and you've done it
you've completed the course and let me
just say you are now amongst the top
three percent of students that actually
start these courses here on YouTube and
finish them that's a massive deal and
you've done amazing to get all the way
through this course now as you've got
this far you may well be asking yourself
what should I do next and it's a great
question and one we can definitely help
you with at this point with you showing
such commitment to your guitar learning
I really truly believe that the best
thing for you is to now go over and
check out our YJ Club I say that because
the club is where we can match your
commitment we can match your focus and
give you a unique and focused pathway
that will take you to the next level you
simply choose your current goal and
activate your pathway the entire pathway
is supported with detailed write-ups
backing tracks interactive tab core
diagrams everything you need and of
course you'll also get access to the
progress tracking our wonderful
community of students and Men Resource
as well as the weekly webinars and the
ability to post a progress review that
will be reviewed by one of our amazing
tutors all these elements combined will
make sure that your learning stays fun
and focused and therefore you're going
to make progress all the way through
your journey so please do check out the
links below to grab your 14 day free
trial and I cannot wait to meet you in
our club

